- Deployment - Imperative & Declarative approach - Doc

# 2.  Deployment workflow (Declarative and Imperative)
Deployment - Imperative & Declarative approach - [Doc]

will deploy an nginx-app for the context to implement `deploy` (object) workload resources, the features, functionalities and the applications. 

Since, `rs` is more similar to `deploy` object, will follow with the same manifest taking that as a template here for the deployment. 

So, will drop the last manifest here and just do very minimal changes since, 
- **`apiVersion`** for `Deployment` is as same as `rs` = `apps/v1 `
- **`kind`** from `Replicaset` to `Deployment`
-  metadata as per convenience. 
- spec as same as `rs` + extra parameters  as per convenience. `replica` is must 
- same goes for `matchLabels` and `matchExpressions`, since `Deployment` object creates/uses `rs` under  the hood, so same works here as well. Here, will just use `matchLabels` - simply to identify the PODs. 
- and the rest are obsolete. (PodTemplate, Spec of containers and the shared volume..)
> recap of the workflow: 
`Deployment` -> `rs` -> `Replica`+`PodTemplate+hash`->Pods in all the relevant nodes.
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx-rs
  labels:
    app: nginx-app
    env: prod
    release: v1.0
  
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx-app
      env: prod
      release: v1.0

  template:
    metadata:
      name: nginx-rs
      labels:
        app: nginx-app
        env: prod
        release: v1.0

    spec:
      containers:
      - name: write-app
        image: alpine
        command: ["/bin/sh"]
        args: ["-c", "while true; do date >> /var/log/index.html; sleep 10; done"]
        resources:
          limits:
            cpu: 100m
            memory: 100Mi
        volumeMounts:
        - name: rc-shared-volume
          mountPath: /var/log

      - name: nginx
        image: nginx:latest
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        resources:
          limits:
            cpu: 100m
            memory: 100Mi
        volumeMounts:
          - name: deploy-shared-volume
            mountPath: /usr/share/nginx/html
      volumes:  
      - name: deploy-shared-volume
        emptyDir: {}
```

NOW, WILL SEE DEPLOYING THIS IN BOTH **IMPERATIVE** and the **DECLARATIVE** WAY. 

###### 1) Declarative way:
create and verify `deployment` workload resource,
```sh
kubectl create -f /path/to/deploy.yaml
```
```sh
kubectl get no 
kubectl get deploy -o wide 
kubectl get rs -o wide
kubectl get po -o wide
```

here, while doing `kubectl get `
1)  `no` - to check all the available nodes

2)  `deploy` - to check the status of the `Deployment` object. USUAL RITUAL.
- shows the same - desired, actual state, the app container based out of that PodTemplate, the image that it using and the selector's labels.
```sh
NAME        nginx-deploy         
READY       3/3
UP-TO-DATE  3
AVAILABLE   3 
AGE         22m
CONTAINERS  write-app,nginx       
IMAGES      alpine,nginx:latest
SELECTOR    app=nginx-app,env=prod,release=v1.0
```

3)  `rs` - reason why we are verifying `rs` while we are implementing `deployment` object. 
```sh
deployment -> rs -> replica & podTemplate+hash -> Pods
```
so, the `rs` get to exist out of `deployment` object here. 
>DEPLOYMENT CREATES AN `rs`. The name of the  `ReplicaSet` - will be having a prefix with the name of the deployment + random characters.  
 - shows the same - desired, actual state, the app container based out of that PodTemplate, the image that it using and the selector's labels.
 - in the **selector's labels,** you will see one more label named, `pod-template-hash=randomHashCode`, which is not added by us but by the `deployment` for the `rs` to identify different `replicas` among the bunch of versions. **For the `rollout` and `rollback` purposes to upgrade or downgrade your application.** 
> to handle different `rs` handles by the `deployment` object. 
```sh
NAME         nginx-deploy-7bfd94485b  
DESIRED      3
CURRENT      3
READY        3
AGE          22m
CONTAINERS   write-app,nginx  
IMAGES       alpine,nginx:latest
SELECTOR     app=nginx-app,env=prod,pod-template-hash=7bfd94485b,release=v1.0
```

4) `po` - these `pods` will get created by the result of those `rs`in the backend. 
- POD names will look like `rsName+theHashCode+randomCharacters`. since the `rs` created our PODs, so the `rs`'s names got followed here. 
> **AND EVERYTHING WILL WORK JUST PERFECTLY FINE!** 

**Here, the `data` is different but the application is as just same as others.** 

FINALLY!, understood the workflow of `deploy` -> creates -> `rs` -> uses `Replica+PodTemplatewith#hash` -> creates Pods

**Will tinker with this and get a bigger picture,**
###### 1) Deleting a Pod, (`rs`creates another Pod)
```sh
kubectl delete Po podName
```
Pod gets deleted,
```sh
kubectl get po -o wide
kubectl get rs -o wide 
```
>**A new `pod` spawn and the `rs` satisfying the desired state.** 

###### 2) Deleting an `rs`
since, we know the workflow that `deployment` -> creates -> `rs` -> (takes care of Creating Pods).

What happens if we delete an `rs`,
```sh
kubectl get rs -o wide
kubectl delete rs rsName
```
```sh
kubectl get rs -o wide
kubectl get po -o wide
```
> `Deployment` object creates `rs` which eventually spins up the Pods.
- Pods will be deleted, and new one gets recreated with the new `rs`. **New Pods will be created** and 
- the new `rs` will be having/gets recreated with the same Name/ID with that suffix.  
**Benefit/advantage**: Even if i delete `rs`, it can get back to be managed in ease. 
> I don't want to delete the `deployment`, but I want to re-apply the `rs` means, simply delete `rs` which get recreated with the same old name spins new Pods (with the new changes if applied).

###### 3)  Cleanup
nothing will get cleaned up if you delete, 
- the Pods, new one gets spawned
- the `rs`, new `rs` with the same old name gets spawned
But the `deployment`, to clean up the entire resource fully means, 
```sh
kubectl delete deploy deploymentName
```
Workflow ->If `deploy` gets deleted, deletes `rs` which deletes the `Pods`.
verify the same. 
```sh
kubectl get po -o wide
kubectl get rs -o wide
kubectl get deploy -o wide
```

*fin!

---