Kubernetes Objects overview
- Kubernetes Overview & Pod Introduction - [Doc]
##### Section 4: K8S Workloads

### 1. Workload resources introduction
###### Kubernetes Workload Resources introduction - [Doc](obsidian://open?vault=tutorialHell&file=Orchestration%2Fk8engineers.com%2FKubernetes-Deep-Dive%2Foffl-raw-docs%2Fkubernetes%20deepdive%2Fsection4-workloads%2F1.%20Kubernetes%20Workload%20Resources%20introduction.docx)

**K8s Workload resources**:
So far, we've been covering all things about **POD**s. which itself means **Workloads**. 
	Since, we know that a standalone POD running alone in the environment is dangerous, not a best practice and volatile if any major downtime occurs to the node. No workload will be persistent and present after node's recovery. -> the drawbacks of standalone pod, 
	-
	Container and stuff managed by `kubelet` are all fine but no POD creation process is done here. and for node if gets down. youre cooked!
	-> Managing PODs are manual intensive job managing all things manually. 
	-> **can't and should not deploy critical application for my prod.**

**What are all the solutions available in K8s to evade this? what are all the resources available to provision my application instead of deploying things standalone?** -> ==**Workload Resources,**== 

what is that? and how it works different than POD?
- **If standalone**: all things manual
- **If with Workload Resources:** 
Way things works is different, such as 
- Functionality,
- handling the PODs 
- Lifecycle policy is all different.

So far, we been discussed about Workloads, means POD. 
>Previously  we have touched a note that,  
>IT IS NOT A BEST PRACTICE OR PEOPLE DON'T DEPLOY APPLICATIONS ON A SIMPLY STANDALONE, were they are very prone to failures caused by any means. can occur via system error, network error or application error.

>AFTER SUCH CASES? AND THINGS GET RECOVERED AND THE NODE GETS SPAWNED? Will all the pods with our application exists on our node?
**NO! create manually by passing the same to kubectl** -
==DRAWBACK OF STANDALONE PODS== ALL THINGS CONTAINERS ARE TAKEN CARE BY `kubelet` no prob. WHAT IF THE WHOLE NODE GETS BRICKED?

**Concern**: we cannot deploy critical or any applications in such a loose environment.
so Solution? There are solutions. These concerns can be satisfied with the help of a set of **==WORKLOAD RESOURCES==**. 
IS IT DIFFERENT FROM POD? **YES**!

**If standalone**: all things manual
**If with Workload Resources:** 
Way things works is different, such as Functionality, handling the PODs Lifecycle policy is all different. Will see all of that in brief.

What are all the resources available provisioning the same? All the available resources to do manage PODs? 
Context: (replica = multiple identical pods) by `kube-controller manager`.

 **1) ReplicationController** - *basic resource to run multiple pods*
**2) ReplicaSet** -  alternate/ upgraded version of `ReplicationController` (except `selectors` which selects labels)
 **3) Deployment** - uses `replicaset`  in backend to create replicas for scale in and out + rollback and rollout versions upgrade and downgrade, good for production environment. 
 **4) CronJobs** - run a specific script/job/program/process as jobs but run it on a specific time.
 **5) DaemonSet** - running mandatory PODs on each and every node in the cluster, for monitoring and stuff.
**6) Statefulset** - is to run stateful apps where above seen are stateless
 **7) Jobs** - run a specific script/job/program/process 
 **8) (followed by Jobs) -> Auto Clean-up for finished jobs** - Workspace cleanup
 
 `replicaset` is used in backend  by `deployment` to create replicas for scale in and out + rollback and rollout versions upgrade and downgrade. can be used in production level. (!important)
 
K8s **Workload Resources** Introduction:
> [!workload resources:] **WORKLOAD RESOURCES:**
> **1) ReplicationController** 
> **2) ReplicaSet**
> **3) Deployment**
> **4) CronJobs**
> **5) DaemonSet**
> **6) Statefulset**
> **7) Jobs**
> **8) (followed by Jobs) -> Auto Clean-up for finished jobs**
VERY VERY IMPORTANT SHIT THAT MANAGES YOUR RESOURCES:

##### 1) `ReplicationController`: utmost first basic set of workload resource
**tldr**: `ReplicationController` - *basic resource to run multiple pods*

 **`ReplicationController`** is a basic choice that helps running multiple pods.  Replicate running identical multi-container application pods.  
In near future, the `ReplicationController` might get deprecated. Alternatively, `ReplicaSet`.

##### 2) `ReplicaSet`: replication-controller on steroids
**tldr**:  `ReplicaSet` - alternate or upgraded version of `ReplicationController` (as same as `rc` except `selectors` which selects labels)

Instead of `ReplicationController`, **`ReplicaSet`** is the go to solution for the same. **ReplicaSet** is a highly recommended to use for the same instead of ReplicationController.  Why? **`ReplicaSet`** is used in the backend with a resource named **`Deployment`**.

Moreover both **`replicaset`** and **`controller`** both in terms of functionality and workings are same **except selecting the labels** - known as `selectors` which selects labels.
> `ReplicaSet` is the advanced feature of `replication-controller`. To use the same, we should be working with `Deployment`.  why?

##### 3) `Deployment`: 
**tldr**: 3) `Deployment`- `replicaset` is used in backend  by `deployment` to create replicas for scale in and out + rollback and rollout versions upgrade and downgrade. can be used in production level. (!important)

**`Deployment`**: the basic component which we use to deploy applications on one or more than one pods.
- scale in scale out pods based on load
- roll back roll out (upgrade and downgrade applications)
In K8s Realtime environment, by default applications gets deployed based on the `deployment` component. not the components which are replica set, controller or pod. 

 `Deployment` is using `ReplicaSet` in the backend to create and deploy replicas with the help of defining actual and desired state. 
 > WTF IS EVEN A REPLICA? -> **==Creating Multiple Pods ad handling them by `kube-controller-manager` ==**, If anything goes wrong with the pod like failure, crash, brick, failed or even deleted either intentional or unintentional. 

 K8s will check a parameter called `desired-state` and `actual-state` in the pod creation manifest. With that, if anything occurs getting created or deleted above or below abiding that states. 
> Deletes if more than desired number gets created or created if there is below that desired number.

 can be used in production level. (!important)
 
THESE ARE MANAGED BY K8s. These works with the help of Replica concept in the backend. Will see more about these in brief.

##### 4) `DaemonSet` : running pods in each and every node in the cluster including replication-controller for specialized use cases.
**tldr**: `DaemonSet` - running at least one POD on each and every node in the cluster, eg: monitoring and stuff. helps running applications on relevant pods in each and every node in the cluster including `replication-controller`. 

Ensures running at least one pod on each and every node. 
> **why or for any specialized purposes?** running pods for monitoring and observatory purposes, such as monitoring, logs, application, load, traffic and more.

For such cases, we will be deploying applications on kubernetes clusters using `DaemonSet`. will see further in detail.

##### 5) `Statefulset`: This way of deploying applications using Statefulset 
**tldr**: `Statefulset` - all these above seen objects are stateless, `statefulset` is to run stateful apps.

All the above covered K8s **Workload Resources** such as `ReplicationController`, `ReplicaSet`, `Deployment` and `DaemonSet` are all **stateless**. You can proceed deploy application statelessly, these are the choices. 

If you want to deploy things applications state fully, `statefulset` is the go to choice. 

##### 6) `Jobs and CronJobs`
**tldr**: `Jobs` /  -  run a specific script/job/program/process 
Jobs and CronJobs are nothing but to run a specific job, batch operation, script, function or process. 
 `CronJobs` - same jobs but run it on a specific time. for purposes such as backups, restores, updates or anything you'd like to do on K8s Cluster.
 
Used for cases such as taking backups, snapshots, restoration and more -Jobs and Cronjobs.
**Job** - Runs a specific task
**CronJobs** - Run specific tasks on specific time or interval. 

##### Auto-cleanup for finished jobs:
**tldr**: (followed by Jobs) -> Auto Clean-up for finished jobs (workspace cleanup)
A functionality. As the name says as you know, cleans up the Jobs leftover. To remove/delete the jobs that are done doing such tasks - `Auto-cleanup for finished jobs`. If not cleaned up, they will persist still in the garbage collection in **`etcd`**. This process named Garbage Collection. 

> ALL THESE **`WORKLOAD RESOURCES`** MENTIONED HERE ARE ALL NOTHING BUT EXIST HER JUST OF ONE CORE MAIN OBJECTIVE ULTIMATELY IS TO **CREATE PODS**. 
> Thou creating pods, which are made possible with the help of all these `WORKLOAD RESOURCES`. - CREATING BUNCH OF PODs in a certain manner.
Not simply a blatant standalone PODS which are named `WORKLOADS` To run all our applications either way.

Will see all of these in detail further. 
