Description: HTML & CSS, Rendering, Frontend 
Homework: Experiment with the things learned in today’s session Read HTML && CSS Tutorial in w3schools

**Bit of Context before proceeding further:**
Index:
1) User Knowledge Analysis
2) opening a `.html` once ever

Talking about the idea behind Web Engineering here, should be more than something bigger than just opening a `.html` in a browser.

We all have seen the overview about the hierarchy of the levels of perception while referring to the difference between all the layers of web.

*eg: if a 5K dev exist among a guy who actually know what it takes to build a website for 50-60K or such.*
The result of it tends to have a no awareness between the difference of all these layers of web.

So, an entry level dev perceives the levels of perception as just a web page construction at first. With your experience, the growth lies behind is that it has to gradually enhance as time goes. 

This WEB ENGINEERING thing has been designed to give that perception. Here in the perception, most **devs** are barely crosses to 3rd one. Up until website design or some go next. 

Thing is, the 0 to 1 is the hardest of all and we can take things further to different perception one by one with gradual amount of effort. 

People who perceive  from 1 and more are WEB ENGINEERS already. 

THE IDEA HERE IS TO UNDERSTAND COMPUTERS AT ITS CORE. 
- How computers works
- How two systems communicate to each other
- How to tweak communications
- All the available types of communication
- Which are all that we can take here to web and make things work
is WEB ENGINEERING. So, anybody who are in `0` is not yet in the game. 

SO WE WILL KICKSTART THINGS FROM HERE. 

To understand the context in brief, will get started with `html` and take things further from there. 

WILL SEE ABOUT, 
- HOW WEB HAS BEEN CONSTRUCTED
- HOW WE CONSTRUCT ONE
So,

unsung rules:
- keep updated and adapt to this dynamic field
- if a term is unfamiliar, feel free to google the same
- We will be consistent and continuous learner, so R&D is mandatory by default
# HTML
`.html` HTML - Hyper Text Markup Language,
> *Hypertext Markup Language is the standard markup language for documents designed to be displayed in a web browser. It defines the content and structure of web content. It is often assisted by technologies such as Cascading Style Sheets and scripting languages such as JavaScript*

Not a programming language. It is a **markup** language.
Markup -> Design Language. 

> which is nothing but a simple and ordinary text file. (like as same as other text files such as .txt, .md, .rtf, .docx and such)

This Hyper Text Markup Language is nothing big but just a file format like any other. 

Despite of these formats, each formats are opened to be  supported on their appropriate applications. 
`.mp3, .mp4` for vlc, `.docx `for word, `.txt` for notepad, 

The mode of different file extensions largely varies between these file formats, Broadly speaking, the computers which understands the major of format is mostly, 
- the text based formats contains just **text**, non encoded but
- the media or program supported formats are all will be in **binaries**/*also known as* **blobs** which are heavily encoded and consist of some external structure

> LIKEWISE, `.html` is a text based format for WEB BROWSERS. ad most of the source code are of text files. 
this format has been largely supported by nearly all the WEB BROWSERS.

so, basically TEXT files. The awareness of these files and formats are largely scarce. BUT THESE DIFFERENT TYPES OF FILE FORMATS ==PLAYS A MAJOR ROLE IN WEB==.

so, the `.html` opens with web browsers. For such kind,
A normal `html` file's syntax will be, starts always with and follow through of
```html
<html>
<head></head>
<body>
...
<body>
</html>
```
>***So, this body of syntax is a superset of a file format of*** `XML`

What is this **`XML`**?
> *XML, or Extensible Markup Language, is a markup language used to store and transport data in a structured format that is both human-readable and machine-readable.*

this `XML` is currently used in the category of storing and transporting data just like similar format like `json`.


`zip`Idea of encoding where combining multiple binary data and compressing under a `zip` format,  
`json` - Likewise, if it with text based data means its `json`.
This make things possible with having a collection of `key-value` pairs. 
WHICH is basically a text but follows a format which is `json`.

the format of the above seen syntax is `.html` which is a superset of `xml`. 

26mins.



