**Description:**
Every IT Project Manager must know how to use Jira. I'll walk you step-by-step through each aspect of a Jira Project that you need to know. Also, you'll learn how Jira works hand in hand with the processes and workflows of an organization.

**Agenda:**
- Intro 
- Creating Jira account 
- How you get into Jira in the real world 
- Issues in Jira 
- Jira's user interface 
- Query in Jira 
- Information hygiene in the issues 
- Environments 
- Releases 
- Project settings 
- Most critical aspects of Jira 
- Backlog section 
- IT project management education 
- Every IT project manager must know

#### Creating Jira account 
#### How you get into Jira in the real world 
#### Issues in Jira 
#### Jira's user interface 
#### Query in Jira 
#### Information hygiene in the issues 
#### Environments 
#### Releases 
#### Project settings 
#### Most critical aspects of Jira 
#### Backlog section 
#### IT project management education 
#### Every IT project manager must know
---

#### Intro 
 I want to show you how to use it and we'll start from scratch. I'll go and create a new account with you. So I'll go to Google and just search for Jira.

We'll take this first result, click the get it free. This button by the way, can have different names, but don't worry. And we'll land in this view. There are two cool things here to notice. First of all, Jira is free of charge for a team up to 10 users. So here's what I recommend, after watching this video, create your own account and try to click through all the features that I explained in this tutorial. The second part is that Jira is actually a bundle of projects. And this Jira software is what you think as about Jira, it's a project and issue tracking, but very often it comes in conjunction with Confluence.

It's a document collaboration tool where you store all your documentation, meeting notes and all relevant information. And there are many other supporting modules here like service management, but we won't cover it in this video.

We'll focus on Jira and Confluence. That's why I'll select Confluence and click next. Here, you might have an additional step
 
if you do it for the first time. Atlassian will send you an email where you have to confirm your email address and after that you'll land in this view. So first thing, you need to give a name to your site and this is very cool feature. So Atlassian will keep your Jira instance, your Jira site on their domain for free and you can name it as you want unless this name is already taken And the next step, Atlassian will set up a website for you and install Jira instance there.

It will take just a minute. Sometimes, Jira may ask you a few questions to learn more about you and help you to set up your first Jira project. On the next screen, you'll need to name your project. Next, you can select template. And Atlassian decided that it's recommended to use Chrome. On the next screen, Jira will ask you to integrate with other tools that you might have, for example, like Slack or Jenkins.

For now, we'll just keep it. And here we are. We landed at the default screen with some tutorial. It's a blank page. And what's even more important, it's a very simplified project in Jira. And here's the biggest
problem as I see it.

In all tutorials, if we continue just explaining things based on this simplified setup of Jira, you will learn nothing because when you come to a new company in the real world, their Jira setup will be completely different and it'll be more complicated.

Here, I think it's worth mentioning how you get into Jira in the real world. In very rare cases, when you work in a very small company, you may set up a Jira account on your own.

But in most cases, if you work for an organization that uses Jira as a primary tool, a Jira administrator will invite you to the company's Jira and they will use your corporate email for that, and usually you get an email that prompts you to set up password and get access.

That's why you can use this approach I'm showing right now where you create new account with your personal mail address only for learning purposes. That's why for the purpose of this tutorial, I will switch account and will move to my another account where I set up Jira the way that real companies uses it most of the times.

This way, you won't be shocked when you join a new company and see that everything is different. But when you do create your own account for training purposes and you don't see all of this stuff here, just remember that you can go to project settings. Then you can click the features and you can tune on most of the capabilities that I'll explain in this tutorial here.

So in Jira, we work with issues or tickets. In other words, it's the primary building block or entity in Jira. There are different types of issues. So for example, you can have tasks and sub-tasks, user stories, epics, and so on. Also, you can create your own issue types in Jira if you need to align it with your organization's workflows. So an issue is just this card here on your UI. And if you open it,each issue has lots of fields here. So for example, you have your title, which is just text.

Then you have your description, which is a rich text editor. So you can use bold, italic, some styles here. You can add links, images, mansions, emojis, tables, codes, snippets, and many, many, many more information here.

Then you can go to this details part. And here you will have dropdowns to select people. You can have your labels, which are multiple select fields. Then you can have your numbers like user story, story points here or estimates in hours, or even more complicated fields like time tracking where you can add some time tracking to say that you spend one hour on this task. Likewise, you may have feels like date pickers where you can select date or date and time.

Also, you can link issues with each other either as parent and child or as related, or to show that one issue blocks another, we'll cover it later. On top of that, you have your attachment. So if you click attach, you can usually attach
any file that you want. For example, you can put here mockups, designs, any diagrams or documents that developers can reference. Last but not least, you have your commandment section. So each issue has related commands to it. And again, it's a rich text editor.

You can do a lot of cool things here. So here's what I want you to remember, that there are different issue types like user story tasks and subtask graphics, and each of them may have different set of fields and even composition and layout of these fields. Likewise, in general, you can customize everything here.

You can have a different set of fields, you can compose them in different way. You can put some fields in detail, some in more fields, some in this general section. So when you come to a real life company and you'll see that it's completely different that's totally okay, because they just customized it. But at the end of the day, it is just Jira.

However, here's what I want you to remember. Jira has many different features, but essentially, Jira simply shows you issues in different groups and representations. That's why it's critical to understand what feels from an issue Jira uses for different features. And let me demonstrate it to you while we familiarize ourselves with this Jira user interface.

And we'll start with the project sidebar, are located on the screen's left side. It's tailored to provide quick access to project specific information including project details, project settings, and the projects issue tracker. And first we have the roadmap section,

which provides a high level view of the project goals and milestones. Additionally, you can rapidly create epics here with minimal required information. As a result, it gives you a Gantt chart view of your development roadmap. But if you think about it, Jira filters epics in your project and visualizes their start and due date. Plus, this dependency line creates a link between two epics. So you can see all this information inside each issue. The backlog section allows you to prioritize work items and plan sprints based on your team's capacity and goals.

But again, Jira uses and adjust information inside an issue.  So if for example, you assign a user story to a sprint, Jira will add the sprint name in the corresponding field.

The backlog looks slightly different if you use Kanban, but the main functionality stays the same. The difference is that Kanban backlog mainly relies on status of an issue instead of the sprint. Then we have the active sprint that will give you a different view of the sprint backlog. It's just as if you have  physical Scrum board in your office. Here you can drag and drop issues, but essentially, Jira just changes their statuses. Okay.

I'll skip report section for now. We'll get back to it in just a few minutes. Next, we have the issue section, which provides access to all projects issues, even hidden ones. And that's important. Here, you have many tools to find group and filter required issues based on all their fields. So for example, you may need a list of all epics with priority higher than normal.

Then you need to select an issue type and find the corresponding filter for priority. And just like that, I have created a simple query. You need to remember this word, query. You'll hear a lot about it in Jira. A query is your request for information on Jira's database of issues. You tell Jira to show you all the issues based on the parameters you provide. So we can use these predefined dropdowns to select the required fields we want to use in our query. However, it is just to make your life easier. It's called a quick search. But under the hood, Jira has a Jira query language. It's a super simple programming language. And what's more important, it's human readable.

So for example, if you want to find all pics with priority, high or highest, the query will look like this. Issue type equals to epic and priority in high, comma, highest, and project GCalc. That's just the short name of our project.

This knowledge is for advanced users, but when you become a senior IT project manager, you do need to know this stuff. But before that, you may suffice with quick searches only. Anyways, why do we need these queries and query language? The main idea is that Jira has a limited number of predefined views for issues that you see on the user interface, but often you will need to customize the set of issues based on specific parameters.

And after that, here are just a few use cases to use your custom set of issues or your query. First, you can make a bulk change of fields for the selected issues. For example, you need to add a label field to all epics with high priority.
Second, your query is dynamic. Every time you run the query, it will give you the updated list of issues.

For example, you want to see a list of issues created yesterday to review and prioritize them. Thought you can query issues created after a specific date or within a range of dates. For example, it can give you a list of defects created during a week. So it's the basis for any different reports. First, you can save of the query as a filter, and then you can easily access filters here at the top. So it allows you to monitor selected issues with just two clicks away.

Fifth, you can use saved filters in different prayer build reports and dashboards. We'll review them later in the video, but once again, they allow you to visualize issues and the attributes in a different way. Overall, learning Jira's query language is an excellent investment of your time, but now we need to pause because there are several critical takeaways from what you have learned so far. Let's go discuss them. (clacking sound)

Okay. Just needed some coffee to continue this conversation. You see, Jira is just a tool to visualize your issues based on fields and parameters that they have. So to become a better Jira user, you need to learn what those fields mean and how Jira uses them.  That leads us to a more important second take away, your Jira and your project are as good as the data inside your issues.

If your issues do not contain the required information or inaccurate, Jira will give you a misleading information. As you know, garbage in, garbage out. So if you want Jira to be useful, you must maintain strict information hygiene in the issues.

And likewise, you need to ensure that you collect only the required information in those issues. So often IT project managers, although Jira with fields that don't add value to the project management approach and the team.

Okay, keep this in mind because it's critical for the rest of our Jira overview. Let's get back. All right. Next in the  sidebar, we have components. This section allows you to create subgroups of your issues. It's just a custom tax field. 
But in practice, we can use components to group tickets that relate to one module of functionality of our product.

For example, log in screen, in approaches, database, and so on. Also, you can automate some processes with these components like assigning a responsible person. It's also a way to point to the subject matter expert of this module.

For example, the primary use case is that you can fill out the component field and then the ticket is automatically assigned to a tech or a group lead. And this person,

this tech lead reassigns these tickets to other team members in their sub team based on their knowledge. It's a  basic delegation routine that saves lots of time in the long-term and removes you as a bottleneck. And then with all this knowledge, we can return to the report section. So here you can find some build in reports. Some of them will use just one field and show you some kind of chart. Other reports will require a saved filter based on your query.
These reports can give you the necessary insights to make correct decisions about your project. But unfortunately,
there is no universal piece of advice here. You must play with these reports to understand what you can present to your project stakeholders. The only recommendation here is to actually use these reports and Jira dashboards. You should avoid manual extracting data from Jira to provide a high level progress report as much as possible. Let's move on.

Here, we have the development section or the sidebar. In the code section, you can link Jira to your code repository. And after you connect those, you'll see all pool requests here. Moreover, your Jira issues will have an additional link leading to the corresponding pool request in the repository, but it's beyond the scope of this video. You can research this topic on your own. However, you should not be responsible for setting this up.
Your engineers should do this. Next, we have the releases. And I need to deviate a bit to explain this concept. In the deal and very simple IT project, you implement and test your product in a development environment. Then once in a while, you release it into the market or so-called production environment. But in the real world, we develop  products in multiple environments. Most commonly we have development environment. That's where all  developers in the team work on the code. This environment is rapidly changing because everyone changes the code at will. Then we test the dev environment and promote code to the staging environment. The staging environment is used for a stable version of the code that ideally doesn't contain obvious defects. Therefore, once we put a new piece of functionality to staging, we will only promote selected fixes to this functionality for some time. This way,
we keep staging environments stable until we develop another big piece of functionality to promote, and we use this version to present to customers and other stakeholders.

The production environment is the environment where real end users have direct access to the product. For example, Apple App Store is the production environment for all iOS apps. And again, we promote a stable version of our product that we've thoroughly tested from staging to production. And the main idea is that you make fewer changes as you go to the high environment. So essentially, you start bundling them. Also, you control more and more of what changes you make. Ideally, the products quality improves as you progress through the environments, 
but there might be even more environments. For example, integration and quality assurance environments. Okay.
That's the theory of quality and change management. But now you need to reflect it inside your Jira project.

There might be different approaches to representing it in Jira. For example, issues and the related code get to the  staging environment following the Jira workflow on the board. But to get to the production environment, you group all issues into Jira release and release them as a package. This is a fundamental approach
to version control of a software product. It allows you to ensure your new code is tested and won't break your production environment. Moreover, you control what functionality and pieces of code go to production. And finally, you incrementally add new features and capabilities to your product. So as you see, this Jira functionality is closely  related to the development practices inside your organization, and every company has a unique approach 
on how to set this up.

But for the sake of this tutorial, remember that when you make a release, tickets disappear from your board and backlog, but you can still see them in your release section and you can query them in the issue section. Okay.
In the release section of Jira, you can create releases and you have two approaches here. First, you can plan the release, so you can assign issues to a release. And it will mean that once you implement all the planned issues, then you'll release this code to a high environment. By the way, you can do it quickly in the backlog section. I'll show you later how to do it. And also, you can edit a field in an issue, which is called fix for version. The second approach is to release everything that you currently have in the done state. So for example, you want to promote all the finished work from your current sprint. But one more time, in this release section, Jira just groups issues by one field. All the rest is bells and whistles that help you organize the information.  However, on an advanced level, you can link Jira with developers tools and automate many processes with this release functionality. So for example, when you click the release button, Jira will automatically create a new version of your application. It will run some automated tests
and then move it to the staging environment, and maybe send an email to your testers that it's ready and so on and on. So ask your developers about these capabilities. On a long-term project, it may save hundreds of hours for your developers. Now, I want to ask you to click the like button, if you learn something new or available from this part of the video.

It will indicate that you want more information like this. So please click the like button now and let's continue.

Okay. The project pages section allows you to connect pages from Confluence and give you quick access to your documentation. For example, you can link to the detailed requirements for features and user stories or to the stakeholder register. On the other hand, the ad shortcut allows you to create a new button on this sidebar
and link to any other resource for quick access. 

For example, links to staging and production environments. The project setting section provides access to project specific settings including permissions, notifications, workflows, and more. You can customize every aspect of Jira,
if you have permissions. But here's the next problem, all of these may look different for you based on the type of Jira project that you work with. So let's create a new project now and I'll explain what I mean.
So you need to click on the project dropdown in the navigation bar and click the create project button. And here's the first critical point.

Jira is build around Scrum and Kanban frameworks.

So you must know these frameworks, how they work and the prescribed artifacts and events. Why? Because Jira is just a sophisticated tool to visualize your work.  It does what you ask it to do. So if you don't understand how agile framework or your project management approach work, Jira will not substitute this knowledge. Unfortunately, agile
frameworks are beyond the scope of this video.

However, stay until the end because I'll point you to the available resources that will help you learn all aspects of project management, including Scrum and Kanban.

All right. As you can see, there are many templates that will help you set up Jira to your needs. Depending on your choice, Jira may add more issue types or customize the board or the workflow.

Also, some templates require additional Jira modules like Jira product discovery or service management. We will use Scrum because it is the most common project template that an IT project manager will use. And when you select a framework, Jira will show you the key features, for example, issue types that you will get and the workflow statuses. Again, it is just a starting point. You can customize everything later. So click the used template button. And here's the second critical point.

Jira has two types of projects, team managed and company managed. In most cases, you will work with company managed projects. And if you are watching this video, it means that you will not have permissions to customize most of the Jira settings. In company managed projects, Jira administrator sets up all the projects and does the customization. And admin is just the type of user inside Jira with all the permissions and advanced skills in Jira.

That's why if you need to adjust something in your project,  you will reach out to that person. It's important because many new IT project managers are afraid that they need to set up Jira from scratch.

But in the real world. it's not true. You will use and establish the approach to using Jira and you won't have the ability to change or break too much. And essentially, it's the most significant difference between these project types. Additionally, team managed projects

have fewer customization options,  but on the other hand, they allow you to start a project with little Jira experience. That's why we'll choose a company managed project. Then I'll show you the capabilities, so that you can request them from the project administrator.

Okay. here, we need to give a name to the project. We'll keep these checkbox to connect compliance and the repositories. We can connect all the tools to our new project  on the next screen. And I'll create a new space and confluence, but I'll leave repositories to developers. Now click the button and we are done. But again, even creating a new project may be limited to Jira administrators.

In any case, what should you do when you get a blank new Jira project? Here's the checklist for you. First, check that all team members have access to the project. The easiest way to do that is to give them a link. If someone doesn't have access, ask Jira administrator to add people to the project. Second, you need to check
the Jira board setting. You should check your board's workflow, statuses, and columns. If your company uses simplified workflow, you can add statuses and columns to your project board yourself, and Jira will create
those workflows for you. It is called simplified workflow because you can move issues from any status to any other status.

However, sometimes companies develop a more sophisticated workflow. For example,  you can only move an issue to the done status, if its previous status was in testing. So you won't be able to move an issue from in progress to the done at once. So administrators can create very sophisticated workflows in the Jira settings. Moreover, you can have different workflows for different issue types. Thankfully, the user interface is very intuitive here. You can add statuses and transitions.

You can drag and drop them or link statuses with each other just on this diagram. Anyways, we are moving to the fourth step in a new Jira project, and it is to set up your components, releases, and assign an engineer to connect Jira with code repositories. 

oo, that's enough for an overview. Now let's switch gears and dive deeper into the most critical aspect of Jira. I have empathized a lot on fields and parameters of an issue, so let me walk you through the main fields that you need to know to use Jira efficiently. When you click the create button, this dialogue appears and it contains many stuff here.
This screen is highly customizable, so it may look different in your organization.

First, you see the project dropdown. If you work in a bigger organization,  hundreds of projects might be listed here.
By default, Jira creates an issue in the project you are currently working in. However, it's worth double checking
that you created ticket in the right place.

Next, you can select an issue type. Based on the type, this screen will have different fields. For example, epics have this epic name field. Instead, a user story has a link to epic. There might be many more differences here. You or other Jira administrator can customize fields and their location for each issue type. Then we have the status dropdown. And by default, it will be the first status in the process.

However, you may choose to create an issue that is in progress right away. Next, we have summary. It's the title of your issue. Quite often, different issue types have a specific format for titles. For example, Instagram epics and user stories often follow the following formula. As a user group, I want objective or action so that I overcome a problem.

For example, as a GURPS player, I want to be able to cancel a subscription so that I can opt-out at any moment. On the other hand,  tasks and sub-tasks may have different format that simply describes the required work. In the description field, you describe what this issue is all about. For example, you can explain what work needs to be done, what are the acceptance criteria? Well, everything that a team member might need. It's a rich-text editor,

so you can add formatting to the text. You can add inline images, tables, links, emojis, and cold snippets. So most often, you put your requirements here and you can use whatever format works in your organization. Again, components dropdown allows you to group issues by the module or functionality of your product. In this case, it will be in our purchase component. The attachments area allows you to add files to the issue. Usually, you add wire frames or mockups of your product, some additional documentation, maybe a video explanation, and so on.

The reporter field shows who created this issue. In most cases, it's you. However, imagine that a customer asked 
for an improvement, then you created ticket on behalf of that person.  It will indicate the stakeholder who requested information. Next, we have the linked issue section. And unfortunately, these fields are often overlooked.

However, it's the basic integration of project information. Here are some use cases. You can link to a ticket that blocks you to show that there is a dependency, or you can link to issues as duplication, which will justify closing one of them without doing any work. Likewise, you can link related issues that will indicate that you can find additional information in that second issue. But keep in mind that you must communicate with the team on how and when to use these links.

This is because every company uses them differently. Fixed versions is the field to indicate which Jira release this ticket will get into.  We have discussed this functionality already. the assignee field shows the person responsible for doing the work required  by this field. Arguably, one of the most critical fields. Next, you can set the priority of the issue. Again, there are predefined options here. First, however, you need to discuss it with the team and stakeholders to ensure that you understand them in the same way. Labels field is another way to help you group tickets, and usually labels are visible in many places in Jira. For example, like on the board. And I have already
explained the epic link. Here, you can choose the permanent epic for the issue. In the Springfield, you can indicate in which sprint you plan to do this ticket. If you leave it blank, the issue will go into the backlog. Last but not least, there are two useful features that you need to know about.

First, you can check these box, and once you click the create button, Jira will create the issue and open a new dialogue box for the next ticket. But what's more important, it will prefill all the fields  with the same values as the previous issue. It will save lots of time and effort for you to rapidly create issues. Second, at the top of the dialogue, 
there is this eye button. And if you enable it, you'll watch this issue.  and in practice, you will get notifications and  emails about all changes to this issue. So in practice,  you can track progress on the most critical issues. So for example, if someone asks a question in a comment, you'll know about it at once. And here's another critical thing
you need to keep in mind. When you create an issue, you may not see all its fields. But when you added the existing issue, they do appear.

Moreover, the layout is a bit different. The idea here is that, for example, you should not estimate issues  immediately. Instead, you do it later. And in general, if there is no logic to fill out a field during its creation, you won't see it. And by the way, after you create an issue, the comments section appear. It's important to know that you can mention people in the comments. These people will get a notification to check the comment even if they don't follow this issue. And one more time, you can search and query Jira tickets by all these fields. Moreover, there is more information that meets the eye. For example, you can search for issues updated on a specific date or tickets that have comments or tickets that have no information in a given field.

Okay. And now I want to discourage you from digging too deep into Jira administration and customization. I will show you the capabilities that Jira admin sees and that you can ask for. But likewise, I want you to notice how complex Jira can be. So as an administrator of this Jira, I have access to this configure button. When I click it, I get into the Jira settings. I can add, remove, and rearrange the fields in the issue detail screen in this layout section.
Do notice that it's a project level, so I have some options already available here.

But let's imagine that you want to have a separate text field for acceptance criteria in user stories. Then a Jira administrator can go to Jira settings for issues.

At a glance, there are tons of things that you can do here just with issues. So in our case, we need to add the  custom field. I'll go to the corresponding section and click the create custom field button. Then I'll choose a type 
and we need a paragraph of text. By the way,  do notice how many options we have here? Then we'll name this new field and next,  we can specify in what screen or in other words, in what project this new field appears.

After that,  we need to go to the project level and ensure that this new field appears in the right place. And if not, we can rearrange the order. Okay. Here's what I want you to know. As a general administrator, you set this up for all projects in the organization. So you have the option to customize one project  or all projects at once. If you customize all projects, you end up with issues bloated with dozens of fields that just one or the other team uses.

If you choose to do customization per project, you add a layer of complexity to jury configuration that you need to manage. You see, if you are watching this video, you are a basic user. After a year or two of real life usage of Jira, you will become an advanced user. Then you can add to your practical knowledge some Jira administrative knowledge.

That's a nature of progression I recommend. So don't waste time learning  all these customization options from start. Instead, focus on becoming an advanced user of Jira that your organization already has. However, if for example, you must be a proficient Jira administrator to get your next dream job, you can take one of the adolescents learning paths. It would take dozens of hours of online courses and several hundred doors 
for you to complete. But I'll repeat it,  you don't need this depth of knowledge. To run an IT project,

you need advanced user skills, not Jira administrator skills. All right. That's why let's focus on things that you really need to know how to use, and the most crucial area of Jira, is the backlog section. Here, we need to step back for a second to understand the issue types. And issue types in Jira,  follow the agile best practices. So if you use Scrum by default, the top level of the organization is epic. Next, you break down epics into user stories. Next, you can break down user stories into tasks and sub-tasks. This is the intended hierarchy in Jira. In Kanban, the idea is the same, but you have only epics, tasks, and sub-tasks. At the same time, each issue type can live on its own. So for example,
you can have only user stories in Scrum or only tasks in Kanban.

So all other issue types just help you to organize your work in a better way. Now, here's a critical concept you need to understand. Backlog view is designed for a rapid creation of issues.  To create an issue here,you just need to type  n the summary or the title of the issue, and then you can drag and drop it easily around to add more values to  different fields. But first things first,  when you start a project from scratch,  there are many ways to organize your backlog. For example, if you follow an agile project management approach, start with epics. You may already have a
project charter requirements, traceability metrics, or just some notes from initial meetings with customers.
That's why you have an opportunity to organize stakeholder requirements into epics. This is an excellent example
of project integration because you move stakeholder requirements as ease into a project management tool.

On the other hand, if you work in a purely agile environment, your project starts with sprint zero or some grooming session with the product owner. In this case, you should rapidly create user stories in the backlog with just titles.

Then later, you can organize them into epics. In any case, after that, you'll have a sprint planning session where you will fill out all the user story details. Here's another critical part. This backlog section is prioritized list of user stories.  it means that the most important user stories are at the top of the list. It also means that user stories 
at the top should have more details than those lower down the list, and you are responsible for cooperating with product owners  to set priorities and identify requirements for these user stories at the top. So how many user stories should you have detailed at the top? The answer is, as many as you can take into the next sprint. This scrum framework has two many approaches here. First, you can have grooming meetings during your sprint. This allows you to prepare for the next sprint planning session in advance. I recommend this approach if you develop a product with complicated business logic that requires detailed acceptance criteria or specifications.

The second approach, you do it all during sprint plannings. So at the start of the sprint, you review the top priority user stories and estimate them. You may also decide that you can spend some time writing acceptance criteria during the first few days of the sprint, which will save you time during sprint planning. In any case, when you get to a sprint planning session, first, you need to create a sprint.

Click the create sprint button, then add days to the sprint, set the duration and style dates. It's also important to describe the goal of the sprint. You can also link pages from Confluence. By the way, that's a common  misconception.

In Scrum and Kanban, you can and should have documentation, so it can be specifications using interface designs, related documentation, and so on. You should not try to feed everything into a user story description, and often you can link to the required sources of information. Then you start filling out your sprint until your total estimate is close to your team's velocity.

Again, this video is about how to use Jira. It's not going to explain all the theory behind Scrum framework.

So how do you technically fill in your sprint backlog? You can drag and drop items one by one, or you can drag this line to include multiple user stories. Also, keep in mind that you can plan multiple sprints in advance. Just click the create sprint button and Jira will populate the dates for you. But remember that Scrum never stops and sprints go one after another.

That's why you must ensure that you can fit all the required Scrum meetings in one sprint and your sprint backlog, and Jira doesn't show these meetings. Okay. Sooner or later, you will need to start organizing your backlog. That's why you need to create epics and link user stories to epics. Again, you can do it right from the backlog. Click the create epic button, fill out the summary and epic name fields, and you are done. Next, you can drag and drop 
user stories into epics. They will link up automatically. Do notice that epic name appears on the user story. Likewise, you can open an epic and start creating user stories right inside of it. The outcome is the same. Your issues are linked now. And again, you can filter and group them in the backlog. By the way, in the same way you can organize releases, create a release here. For example, we'll release everything that we will implement in sprints. One, two, and three. Then you can drag and drop the user stories to your release and they will link up automatically. 
Okay, congratulations. The last step in the backlog is to start the sprint. So click the button, check the information, 
and start the sprint. But remember, the Jira will start tracking your progress after you begin the sprint. 

And in Scrum, you have your burndown chart.  That's why if you change estimates or remove or add user stories, 
it will affect your reporting. And overall, it may screw with your team's velocity. And there is one more critical concept about Jira that you need to understand. Let's go to the sprint backlog. You see, most of the teams do break own their user stories into tasks.  Moreover, they estimate their tasks in hours, which as you understand, is not prescribed by Scrum. And you may need to estimate in hours, not just story points for many reasons. First, you may need a better control over the progress. Second, you need to address the Parkinson law. Third, you may need to
report to customers. In ours, for billing purposes. So you may ask, so why is it so important? As you can see, 
Jira has many features that you need in the real world. It's not just Scrum or Kanban in vacuum. This functionality here exists because you need it in the real world. And in fact, it creates several problems for you. 
First, as I said already, Jira does what you ask it to do. That's why you need to know Scrum and Kanban because Jira is tailored to these agile frameworks. But second, Jira is just one, two in your whole project management approach. 
Other aspects like stakeholder nd risk management, cost and time management, hiring and overall project  management happen outside of Jira.

So now you can try and Google all these process tools and techniques on YouTube, and then you need to invent a way to make them work together and transform it into issues in Jira.  That's why let me ask you this. Do you want me to explain all aspects of project management, including Scrum and Kanban in all the details? I'm asking because you watched this long video,

even though you are extremely busy for a reason. So maybe you want to become an IT project manager and you don't know what knowledge  and skills are essential n the IT industry. Perhaps, you are already
a project manager,  but you may feel the need to understand all the aspects of project management and how to apply them in practical scenarios with tools like Jira,
