###### Pod initContainers - [Doc](obsidian://open?vault=tutorialHell&file=Orchestration%2Fk8engineers.com%2FKubernetes-Deep-Dive%2Foffl-raw-docs%2Fkubernetes%20deepdive%2Fsec3-k8s-pods%2F8.Pod%20initContainers.docx)

There are few types of containers that do exist in this K8s Environment, such as:
- **init Containers**
- **Sidecar Containers**
- **Ephemeral Containers**
initContainer - Initializing containers before anything.

We saw how to deploy apps using **pod** and exposing the same in and out of the K8s Cluster by defining all that in a container section on the PODs Manifest YAML file.

Now, will see another section inside that POD - **`initContainer`** Pod.
###### initContainer Pod:
What it is? Purpose? Benefits?
- **initContainer** will run/create before **app container** defined under containers section.
> - when we write pod manifest, we write specs and under that, will define all the containers. 
> If we does the same ==writing **initContainers** defining **spec** section ==and containers under it, **the initContainer will be created first**, after that the rest of them gets spined up. REASON TO CALL `initContainer` as initializing containers.
> ==**THE FIRST CONTAINERS GETS CREATED WHEN WE LAUNCH A POD.**==

- `initContainers` will not be in running state. it will be shown as completed state and gets terminated showing exit code as 0.
-**`initContainers`** always run to completion.
-Each **`initContainer`** must complete successfully before the next one starts.
whenever you launch a pod with **`initContainers`** written in it.
- Work similar to regular containers but each `initContainer` must be completed successfully before next one starts. One at a time one by one completely. 
-e.g.: In a pod manifest writing a multi-container pod configuration, you declare one initContainer and one regular container with all the same specs defined. `initContainer` will get created first one by one, after that the rest will be done.
- if `initContainer` fails, **kubelet** will keep on restarts the `initContainer` until it gets succeeded unless if there any `restartPolicy` **= never** applied to it.
- all the specs and stuff which has been applied to regular containers can be applied to `initContainers` too. except **probes** and **lifecycle**. 

###### initContainers Use cases:
how this is beneficial to us?
1) to do some initial setup before actual applications/containers to get deployed. e.g.: for an nginx application, i make changes or modify some parameter in the containers and such. SUCH ACTION CAN BE APPLIED in the **`initContainers`** since these things will get launched first.  
2) to run scripts, code and processes as a part or before the initialization of the actual application get created or deployed. things which are operational intensive and not has to be a part of a regular application deployment can be declared here as a separate process or as a job.  
3) to do kernel changes or application specific uses cases such as running distroless containers and such. 
4) `initContainer`s can be ran n number of times. No strings attached, no restrictions just like regular containers. 
