15. Static POD (controlled by `Kubelet`)
###### Static Pod (Controlled by kubelet) - [Doc](obsidian://open?vault=tutorialHell&file=Orchestration%2Fk8engineers.com%2FKubernetes-Deep-Dive%2Foffl-raw-docs%2Fkubernetes%20deepdive%2Fsec3-k8s-pods%2F10.Static%20Pod%20(Controlled%20by%20kubelet).docx)

###### Application Deployment using Static POD:

**Context:**
>STATIC PODS -> Node centric Pods, the **kube-components** that we use such as etcd, kube-controller, scheduler, and apiserver POD are handled by the node itself, not by `kubectl` are handled by that are in such of these containers.

**Understanding Static Pod for deploying applications on K8s:**
- Static Pod (is node specific) will be managed by **kubelet daemon** on the appropriate node.
	So far, we've been working pods by communicating the same by passing manifests files via `kubectl` or passing API Calls.
	-> Who are accessing and receiving the same? `kube-apiserver`, that validates and schema checks
	->  and passes it to store in `etcd` and -> to `scheduler` and to 
	--> **compute node's `kubelet` (start creating pods)** to `cri` to `containers`
Therefore: 
- ==Static Pod will **not be controlled** by *`kube-apiserver (kube API Calls)`*, by **`kubelet daemon`** which runs on specific node.==
	In order to run Static Pods, You gotta get straight to the respective nodes that you'd like to run the PODs on -> Gotta talking straight to `kubelet` and daemon will take care of the rest -> to create such PODs. (nodeSpecificPods)
- Deleting Static Pod through API or `kubectl` will not effect the application, where `kubelet` will recreate it since the Static Pods are administrated and managed by `kubelet daemon` not `kubelet`. Even from controlling Static PODs via `kubectl`, nothing works and maintains desired state done by `kubelet`.
- Static POD names will be added with suffix of node name. Identifying - static pod = (podName + nodeName) can understand that it is a static pod. *(since all the components are running as a static pods*)
- These Static POD manifest can be defined through **Filesystem-hosted** or **Web-Hosted**, will see such implementations further.

**Filesystem-hosted Based Approach:** Simply writing the Manifests in `yaml` or `json`:
`Kubelet` can read default directory `/etc/kubernetes/manifests`, If we place manifest file (either JSON or YAML) to create Static POD for **Filesystem-hosted** approach. All the static pod manifest lies here, so whatever file that we put in the FS and work with the same, this APPROACH OF CREATING STATIC PODS is **Filesystem-hosted** approach.

**Web-Hosted Based Approach:** Simply pulling the Manifests from a remote location:
- Kubelet can download manifest file from the by passing `--manifest-url=<URL>` argument for **Web-hosted** approach. Somewhere in the web, there is a static pod manifest file. If i
```sh
kubectl create -f --manifest-url=<URL> 
```
downloading that using this and create pod, is an other approach of creating **Static Pod** using Web Based Approach.