16.Challenges of standalone POD applications
###### Challenges of Pods - [Doc](obsidian://open?vault=tutorialHell&file=Orchestration%2Fk8engineers.com%2FKubernetes-Deep-Dive%2Foffl-raw-docs%2Fkubernetes%20deepdive%2Fsec3-k8s-pods%2F11.Challenges%20of%20Standalone%20Pod.docx)

So far, we've been catching up with how to deploy applications using POD. Will see the Challenges deploying a Standalone POD:
###### Challenges in Standalone POD:
 Will see about PODS challenges.
 
**The Challenges:**
- POD is a basic entity to run application on K8s Cluster. 
> **==Knowledge about PODs are mandatory in-order to work with K8s==**  or deploy applications or other vectors of concepts such as 
> - Services,
> - DeploymentSet, 
> - ReplicaSet,
> - Statefulset,
> - DaemonSet,
> - Jobs,
> - Cron,
> - controllers on K8s 
> which ultimately contribute to such POD CREATION process.
> such where ==**POD is the entity that will be running all these services and the application,**== so knowing in brief about **PODs** is a basic requirement to get started with. which is nothing but containers,

- POD works as a standalone application in K8s Cluster. Works standalone which it doesn't rely on anything else but `kubelet` in order work in ease.

- PODs are not bind/bounded to specific node (unless we use **nodeName**, **nodeSelector**, **nodeAffinity** etc..,) 
> e.g.: ill be trying to launch a pod, -> request will be sent to scheduler ->  deciding which node it should deploy the pod in.
> 	 If i delete and relaunch the same pod, can't guarantee that i get the same IP and to same node to get deployed into. Unless you register that manifest with parameters like  **nodeName**, **nodeSelector**, **nodeAffinity** etc.  

- POD Lifecycle is not managed by K8s Controller. 
> -- If pod gets deleted by any failure, went wrong while creating, throws error or gets failed and such, K8s wont recreate it. You should be recreate that (with some programmatic and restart policy exceptions). 

- For application to be deployed with HA, POD object is not a right solution
> e.g.: For HA Setup, POD object/Standalone isn't the right solution. Instead we should go for
> - ReplicaSet,
> - Replication Controller,
> - Deployment,
> - DaemonSet
> - and such. 

- ==In real-time environments of K8s Cluster, we don't deploy application as standalone POD==
> no one is going to deploy applications as a standalone pod.
> Any K8s real time environment, you will never gonna see or no one is going to use simply standalone PODs in Production. will be using 
> - ReplicaSet,
> - Replication Controller, 
> - Deployment, 
> - DaemonSet and such. **due to specific but resilient reasons.**

- We should always define containers in POD are application specific. one for one separately, not to the whole in one. 
	eg: if you have a nginx app on one hand and mysql app on the other, doesn't mean it has to be on a same POD. 
	-thumb rule: if, nginx app exist and other app/program/library are dependent on it can be multiples in a same pod but not multiple separate apps on one.  

- Failed PODs should be deleted by us through `kubectl` or API (**terminated-pod-gc-threshold**)
	e.g. if a failure occurs while deploying a POD means, it will be shown and it will exist in get command unless we remove it. doesn't get removed automatically.
	 unless `terminated-pod-gc-threshold` which is a garbage collection condition is applied. threshold = grace period. which this is done by `kube-controllermanager`. if else, delete the same with `kubectl`. ALWAYS CLEAR THE WORKSPACE!

- If a **Node** dies, the PODs scheduled to that node are **`scheduled for deletion`** after a timeout period. merely 30secs.
	eg: If PODs means, it can be recreated in ease. but, what if the whole node fails? what happens to all the PODs and orher resources running on that node?
	-a pod cannot be shifted to another nodes. PODs scheduled to that node are **`scheduled for deletion`**

These are all the points of and challenges met in standalone PODs.
Also, these are the reasons why that we will not be or should not be deploying critical applications with
STANDALONE PODs IRL for/on the Production environments!

