#### 6.POD creation using Imperative approach
###### Pods creation using im perative approach - [Doc](obsidian://open?vault=tutorialHell&file=Orchestration%2Fk8engineers.com%2FKubernetes-Deep-Dive%2Foffl-raw-docs%2Fkubernetes%20deepdive%2Fsec3-k8s-pods%2F3.Pods%20creation%20using%20imperative%20approach.docx)
Will cover creating a pod using imperative approach simply by passing commands via the cli.
will delete the pod and respawn for our practice sake.
```
kubectl delete po <podname> / --all(not recommended espeacially in prod env)
```

> [!NOTE] small note about `namespaces`
> if you do,
> ```
> kubectl get po -o wide
> ```
> it will tell you that,
> *No resources found in default namespace.*
> What is namespace means here? - Namespace - an isolated environment. if you create any object or resource, it will housed under default namespace.

WILL SEE MORE ON THAT IN FUTURE.
++

| obj                        | Docker declarative     | Docker imperative | K8s declarative | K8s imperative         |
| -------------------------- | ---------------------- | ----------------- | --------------- | ---------------------- |
| **Creating  an image/pod** | Dockerfile             | `docker build`    | manifests       | `kubectl create/apply` |
| **Running an image/pod**   | Docker desktop or extn | `docker run`      | manifests       | `kubectl run`          |
| **Executing a pod**        | terminal, vscode, etc  | `docker exec`     | manifests       | `kubectl exec`         |
similar to that!

Now back to topic,
###### Creating POD using imperative approach
```
kubectl run --help
```
refer the same in brief and will see that here one by one. 
**USAGE/SYNTAX:**
```
  kubectl run NAME --image=image [--env="key=value"] [--port=port] [--dry-run=server|client] [--overrides=inline-json]
[--command] -- [COMMAND] [args...] [options]
```
also, you can refer, 
```
kubectl options
```
for list of global command-line options that you can make use out of. ALL THE OPTIONS/PARAMETERS THAT WE CAN PASS.

**WILL SEE CREATING A RESOURCE BY RUNNING THE SAME (CMDs) - IMPERATIVE APPROACH**
JUST LIKE WE DO IN DOCKER.
```
kubectl run -it <podname> --image=<imgname:v> --restart=Always/onfailure/never  
```
  ```
kubectl run -itd hexrapp --image=nginx:1.26.2 --restart=Always
```
>nginx:lts - didn't work for me. so, specify versions for not messing things up. WILL THROW A `IMAGEPULLBACK` ERROR. ++ -d, didn't work 
>Flags, -i = interactive, -t = tty, terminal, -- bash -> shell access / execution

**TO CHECK LOGS OF A POD:**
```
kubectl logs <podname>
```
**OF MULTIPLE PODS:**
```
kubectl logs podname1 podname2 .. podnamen
```

HERE,NOW YOU CAN ABLE TO CREATE OBJECTS/RESOURCES USING IMPERATIVE APPROACH. (From the cli)

BUT,
> **DECLARATIVE APPROACH IS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED**

WHY?
- Operational Intensive
- Too much clutter
- Can't comply to manage multiple containers
- Can't recall the parameters again and again, where it is easy to save configs in a file.
- parameters clutter again and again in every execution, peculiar and relevant for each and every relevant options.
>**basic pod creation using imperative approach by passing commands and parameters in order to create an object/resource in Kubernetes cluster with the help of `kubectl` **

###### Assessing/ Executing/ Working inside a POD 
```
kubectl run -it hexrapp --image=nginx:1.26.2 --restart=Always -- bash
```
gets you inside the POD. cant use `kubectl`, `systemctl` or `service` commands here.
EXECUTE NGINX POD $SHELL TO ENABLE NGINX.
syntax: nginx, -g = global, "" - params
```
nginx -g "daemon off; "
```
**NGINX TURNED ON**

Leave it as a process and open up an another terminal to exec
```
curl <podIP>
```
Prints nginx default page. + can see the request received in the side(logs).
After playing,
SIMPLY YOU CAN DISPOSE IT ALL. 
`ctrl + c`, `ctrl + d` and 
```
kubectl delete po <podname> 
```
> **THIS IS HOW YOU WORK WITH IMPERATIVE APPROACH**. SEE THE PAIN OF DOING ALL OF THESE. 
> **DECLARATIVE APPROACH IS A WISE CHOICE. SIMPLY WRITE IT ALL THAT WHAT YOU WANT TO CREATE, SIMPLY PASS THAT YAML AND VIOLA!**

 ***DECLARATIVE APPROACH = ALIGNS WELL WITH THE ORECHESTRATION CONCEPT***