In German, Zettel means notes and Kasten means Boxes. Meaning, note box, gathering small notes in boxes. 

Will see the History, Approaches and Techniques. 

This method gives benefits such as Maximizing Flexibility, Interconnectivity, increasing comprehension and recall. Gives web like network of info that you learnt, the efficient and enhanced locate, identifying and retrieval of information. Holistic insights with better memory. 

Enables creative sparks, wider creative sparks with the help of the access to your collected references. 

The idea behind Zettelkasten is that the recall of one to one correspondence of follow to pick information from wherever it got stored. 
and retrieve what you had. Also, its counter intuitive because in the hindsight, it seems scattered, clumsy and chaotic that is to get lost in the abyss even if 1000s of those got packed and sorted nicely. BUT, IT IS QUITE AND STRAIGHT OPPOSITE. 

It creates knowledge. Expands knowledge. Creates Long term memory.  
Enables to use space repetition in a manner. It also reduces information overload and overwhelm despite having thousands of these information. 

Using this strategically, you will end up having end up having a structured framework for capturing, process, filtering prioring certain aspects of the information that you capture. 

History - 20's Niklas Luhmann - system that connects vast amount of info and accommodate ideas. This was inspired by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz - The pre-zettelkastan example. 

### note TAKING MASTERY's LIFE CHANGING APPROACH FOR MANAGING KNOWLEDGE - THE ZETTELKASTEN METHOD

**it's difficult but it's going to be giving you so much if you adopt this.,**

So, in our information Rich world, the ability to process and retain and synthesize knowledge is crucial.

Especially for us,  devops engineers and software Engineers,  our field is just constantly changing. 
There is always new developments coming up. 
there's always new things that we need to learn and
you just can't keep up with it if you try to remember everything 

that's why we need to externalize our our learning our our thinking our memory that's what a **good notetaking system** comes into 

###### The Zettelkasten Method:
 The **Zettelkasten method** is the crown jewel of note taking methods.
 
History: 
It was created by Nicholas Lumen. he is a German sociologist. and he is seen as one of the most prolific scholars in
history. He produced a lot of output. he was very productive. he wrote almost seven 70 books and more than 400 academic articles.  now 70 books that's almost two books a year. that is considered to be a significant achievement.

Let's take a look at his writing. this is an essay called communicating with slip boxes. It's his essay on the **Zettelkasten method** and

The point I want to make is that,
this is not a fluff writing. this is very deep thinking that this man is doing in his writing here.

```
Information is an intra-systematic event. it results when One Compares One message or entry with regard to other possibilities. information accordingly, originates only in systems which possess a comparative schema even if this amounts only to `this or something else`.

for communication, we do note have to presuppose that both parties use the same comparative schema the effect of surprise even increases when this is note the case and when you believe a message

```

 the point is that he was note just producing fluff, he was actually like putting out quality content in an insanely High degree. 
 
  I like to say when you learn painting you look at master of Rembrandt and and DaVinci 
  well in terms of writing & productivity,  Lumen is my DaVinci, at the time of his death his Zettelkastan contained 990,000 index cards. 
  
  Before, I dive what the into what these these index cards are and what they do Etc.
  
THE ZETTELKASTAN METHOD:
It's actually very simple and the kiss principle applies here. keep it simple stupid like people create these elaborate videos and and it's very simple.

ZETTELKASTAN is note-taking and personal Knowledge Management System.

ZETTELKASTAN -> ZETTEL - paper/slip. KASTAN -> Crate/Box -> Putting slips in the box.

ZETTELKASTAN,  originally it was a physical box holding index cards. each index card contains a single idea or unit of information and then
the key is that each of these cards they would contain a number in his physical system.

so 
- he had multiple cards and
- all of them had numbers and then
- by referencing that number on the cards 
- he could link those cards to other cards and
- this way he could build up arguments consisting of these little building blocks and  
- he could take the cards out and 
- he could move them around and 
- he could build things and
- create unexpected connections 
- by keeping one idea to one card and 
- by all of this interlinking,
- he was creating this hyper text / web of Knowledge 
- which was stored outside of of his brain
This is what the key of the ZETTELKASTAN method. This is what Lumen was doing. 

There are several principles of the ZETTELKASTAN method.
1) **Atomic notes** - each index card contains one discrete idea
2) **Linking** - with an element of two interconnectedness
3) **Sturcturing** - emergent structure to build a system of their knowledge. 
4) **Own Words** - No quotes. or very sparingly 

Instead of PARA method where you start with 
- a list of projects and 
- you put those category 
- folder your notes 
- put those folders into categories 

ZETTELKASTAN works differently.  
1) you do not start with a pre-supposed structure
2) you let that that structure come organically by linking the notes 

APPLYING ZETTELKASTAN in these digital tools means, 
**We can link these notes by creating markdown links for example.** 
```
But in his physical box, he did note have a a structure to it. those notes were always staying in a fixed place so he would just start with a drawer and just add adding cards to it without any sort of structure. the notes always had a fixed address in the in the box and he would just keep adding them without regard of placement or categories and then he used

the linking as the way to provide structure which would evolve organically. 

> Luman never highlighted any text in his books.  he always wrote down the concepts in his own words. 
Lumen almost never used quotes on his ZETTELKASTAN.  he always converted to it to his own words.

so instead of saying instead of directly quoting the author, he would just write oh on page so and so the author makes this and that compelling argument and I think that it is opposed to that argument that you can find in this ZETTEL.

that's how he would use these ZETTELS.
```

ZETTELKASTAN is just a note taking system like the PARA method, It is more than that. 

==**ZETTELKASTAN is a thinking tool.**==

so the PARA method and other no methods, rely heavily on 
- highlighting text 
- copying quotes 

but Lumen never did that. Like I said it,  
- you always write in your own words and when you do this 
- you engage in a process that's similar to translation as if you're translating to a different language 
- it forces you to think deeply about the material and 
- by writing in your own words you ensure that you truly understand it before you put it into your notetaking system

==So, when you find yourself unable to rephrase an idea or to to write it down in your own words ->  it's a very clear indication that you haven't fully grasped it yet.==

> the act of writing itself is crucial for understanding. 
>  writing is understanding.
>  So, by avoiding to use direct quotes and crafting each note in your own word you're processing it you're you're internalizing it and

++

Secondly, when you have this
- system of index cards,  
- a series of notes all related to each other about some sort of topic 
- when you are building a super complex argument that this guy was doing 
- then you can take these notes and 
- then you can move them around on your desk 
- you can arrange them in different orders and 
- you can see how this argument might fit better over here it might fit better over there and 
- **==this is the power of making these notes Atomic==** 
- that every note is just one idea and 
- then you can you can start seeing structures 
- you can start seeing relations to notes that were note there at all before
- *by keeping these these ideas bite-sized*,  you can you can really start to externalize your thoughts and 
- work with complex arguments which are really difficult to keep in your head constantly 
- it's much easier to have them laid out on the table before you
So, in essence
> ZETTELKASTAN -> transforms note taking from from just a simple passive recording of not really recording or capturing information but
>instead of like just hoarding text that somebody else wrote,
>
>==**ZETTELKASTAN becomes a thinking tool.**
>**you you use your own brain you use your own thinking to** 
>**- create your own words,**
>**- you craft your own words** 
>**- you craft your own thoughts**
>**- you craft your own insights==**

we are going to be delving more into the ZETTELKASTAN method. I'm going to explain exactly 
- how it enhances your productivity. 
- how you can use it to create output. 
- how you can um really increase your your learning. 
- your work as a knowledge worker and 
- your output as a Creator if that is what you are interested 

in so that's what we'll be looking at in the in the few in next coming weeks but if you want to start taking notes using the ZETTELKASTAN method.
