
Will dig into 
### Modular Nature of ZETTELKASTAN method

We've been learning that how the ZETTELKASTAN method actually makes one so productive.
Lumen was one of the most prolific scholars in the in history and he credited his ZETTELKASTAN and with his productivity so 
- how does that actually work 
- why does a ZETTELKASTAN make you productive and 
- how can a ZETTELKASTAN assist you in your life 

### Modular Notes
One key aspect:
##### The Modular/Atomic Nature of ZETTELKASTAN Notes:

Every notes in the ZETTELKASTAN contains one idea -> **Atomic notes**

I'd like to call this term Atomic Notes as
==**Modular Notes or a modular approach**==  where each note is a module.

**each note** -> contains a **single idea or concept** written in your own words -> becoming a **self-contained unit of knowledge.**

**==so each note makes perfect sense in and of itself, when you see your note in your system it should make sense by itself ==** 
***because it just presents one idea clearly and and well thought through*** 

**You** 
- **spend quality time with the note**  
- **craft it carefully** 
- **put effort into it so that** 
- **it becomes an independent self-contained unit of knowledge** 
- **that can function independently and**
- **interestingly==**

this has parallels with software engineering principle, one of them is the principle in
- clean code -> **functions should do one thing** and they should do it well, they should do it only 
++ This quote aligns well with **==Unix philosophy==** -> which states that ***programs should do one thing and they should do it well*** 
> The idea is that each unit shouldn't do a thousand different things, it should just focus on one thing and do it well and 
> I think the same parallel can be drawn towards **notes** in the ZETTELKASTAN where 
> -> each note has one idea
- it goes into it concisely and deeply and
- it can function independently meaning that 
- it is written as if ready for publication 

This methodology helps using my note taking system ->  as a way to generate output -> as a way to create content and ->  I take good care into **writing each note as if it's ready to go on my blog.**

so when the time comes to write a blog post,
- I can just pull in my notes and 
- I don't have to do much editing in order to make these notes presentable 
- this forces me to think deeply about the material 
- to write clearly concisely and to write well, but this also makes it that each
- note can function independently because 
- it focuses on one thing and it does it well 

WHAT THIS ALLOWS WHEN YOUR NOTES CAN BE OPERATED INDEPENDENTLY?
-  flexibility
- reusability - recycle your writing / notes 

your notes become independent building blocks so 
- when you have an argument, it's built up of several elements and
- each note can become **one element i**n the argument 
- this means that if you have a a bunch of notes and
- they would all form an argument so 
- when you sit down to write,
- you pull in several notes and 
- all of these form, one article well 
- you can rearrange these notes 
- you can rearrange the order and 
- you can pull in other unrelated notes and 
- you can just stitch them together
and see how does it fit in this context. *this way you can be writing an article on something completely unrelated and somehow you are reminded of a of a note , that you wrote a month ago well you can just pull that in and you can see how that fits.
this is how I came up with this parallel of clean code principles.
**==this the Unix philosophy==** 

**==this is just an an anecdotal example of how having well-crafted notes can lead to unexpected connections.==**
++
and there's also a visual aspect to it.

### Refactoring (visual aspect of calling in a note in-between a note)
let's go back go to one of my notes.

ex: Will hardcore one. 
1) Pick a para that you can point out that can be ID'd in a phrase.
2) Select that para
3) Right click -> Extract Current Selection. 
4) Enter the phrase that you'd like to call that para on.
5) That will be a new note -> that you ID by just searching that phrase. 

*Here, there is a visual aspect to having modular notes compared to before and after of this hardcoding a note.* On the hindsight, this actually is quite a lot of stuff to process for your brain and for your eyes but after Clicking that note, makes total sense.
> what I have is a small piece of text.
>  I have one thing to focus on. I don't have all of this context around me. I am now only thinking of combining strings in bicep.
  
++ we can pull in that note that we'd like to refer into.

eg:
Lorem ipsum blah blah blah
this happens because, *"here" I would pull in a note that is related* 
and
- I would think about how is this idea similar or different to that idea and
- by thinking about it this way, by speaking about it,  by writing about it, this way
- I will take this concept that 
- I have and look at it from all possible angles and
- compare it and 
- I pull it apart and 
- I re-engineer it 

! **==This visual aspect of note taking -> by pulling out the note like this ->  so that you can focus on only that thing and only think about this thing ->** 
**and this is really powerful and revolutionary in the way you write notes,**   
- **by pulling it out like this,**  
- **focusing on one thing visually**
- **not having distraction and** 
- **actually allowing yourself to go deep on this particular idea==** 
++ that extracted visual note can be collapsed by `!` in front of the note.

 you have your note here so I do this when I write articles. you can pulling in to refer the concept here and there as a visual note. LIKE USING VARIABLES. you can also visually have these notes rendered like this using obsidian.

**this is why obsidian is so magnificent.**

### Deep thinking
==so this was just an example of how the visual aspect plays a role here as well in the deep thinking== ,  instead of seeing this wall of text you can actually focus on one note.

when you do this you, you go deep and then you do an investment of quality time and effort, because like I mentioned,
	writing is thinking
so when 
- you isolate a thing, 
- you modularize it 
- you see it as one module 
- you think about it deeply 
- you write about it 
- you invest quality time and effort into it and 
- you make you craft this beautiful little note that does its thing that does its work independently.
**this way note taking becomes a vehicle for comprehension**. and what you're doing here is you are **==doing the heavy lifting up front.==**.
you do the heavy lifting of the writing of the thinking beforehand.

- when each note is beautifully crafted and can work independently, you do the work beforehand.
- and then when the time comes to sit down and write an article 
- you pull it in all of these beautiful crafted notes who all are ready for publication and 
- ==boom!,  within a matter of minutes, you can have an article if you do your work well. you do the heavy lifting up front ==
- you form the ideas completely 
- you examine it from all angles 
- you link it to other notes and 
- you describe how it can be uh opposing or similar to your other notes and
- **you have done the thinking**, **you understand the concept and it is done**

### Experimenting
Experiment: you have this collection of independently crafted notes.
->  you can start trying them out in different contexts.

*I mean who speaks about not taking and the Unix philosophy?*
 this is a unique idea that I have had as I was writing this article and that was made possible because I have all of these notes on note taking I've done so much deep thinking on note taking.
I can able to pull in this note about the Unix philosophy into this because I had done the thinking about it earlier.
I could place it, I could try it out like does this fit. and yeah this actually fits really well.

 - you can
 - everybody is unique
 - everybody has their own unique interests and 
 - everybody will have their own unique note taking systems and 
 - they would  pull them in in their in their own unique way 
 - leading to very creative new ideas
 so with these notes, 
 - they become building blocks 
 - they can be rearranged 
 Plus, you can use the visual featurettes such as
 - The canvas that you can use for creating your own area course 
 - While other notes exist, you can create a whole new one area by pulling in other different notes to make/create a new one,
 - Will help that to view the area as a **canvas** or **graph**

I use this to actually create a a larger structure out  of all of these notes that I had and  
this process by itself caused me to refine each of these notes and to do very deep thinking about this 

that you see yourself as a factory with input and output and how you should limit your input in order to generate quality output.

Obsidian like tools allow you to take out all of these well-crafted notes arrange them,  experiment with them, create connections between them and,  play with them and

**==this has been a massive massive accelerator in my own thinking==** **so this is what I think allows of a for a very effective way of thinking and handling your notes.**

I think this is one of the ways how the ZETTEKASTEN actually makes you more productive because
- you spend quality time with each note 
- you can reuse your note 
so that is really important this makes you really productive, because if you do the having lifting once then you don't have to think about it.

the next time when you do it so when you have a large collection of well flashed out ideas, 
- you can create a new one very easily
- you can create many different articles by combining the same elements into different unique orders 
- so re recycling makes one very productive 
- you recycle your own thinking
- your own effort and 
- ==**this visual aspect of it where you break out a note and you allow yourself to be sucked into that note and** 
- ==**there is an element of the ability of focus and being able to stick to one idea for a certain period of time and really give it the quality attention to craft something beautiful out of it==**

 so this is one aspect of why I think the ZETTEKASTEN method makes you more productive.



