- service (ClusterIP) with Endpoints - Doc


---
# 6. `ClusterIP` svc with Endpoint
service (ClusterIP) with Endpoints - [Doc]

Will do Practical demo of/on `ClusterIP` Service type with Endpoint,**`ClusterIP's svc endpoint.`**

Recap. on `svc` ->  creates ->  **endpoint** -> identifies -> backend **PODs**. 
In order to manage and splitting the traffic. The distribution part of the `svc` is not performed by the `svc` but the **`svc`'s endpoint**
**==The `svc`'s endpoint takes care of adding and removing the PODs svc LB for the distribution part of the traffic.==** 

To do that, **describe** the `svc`: 
```sh
kubectl describe svc svcName
kubectl describe svc svcName | grep Endpoints
```
and there,
```
Endpoints:     10.244.55.178:80 , 10.244.55.179:80 , 10.244.55.180:80
```
 **endpoints** are nothing but the PODs. These endpoints are the destination points that are the traffic it just ends at. THIS IS AN INDIVIDUAL COMPONENT THAT MAKE THINGS WORK HERE. which is **Endpoint`ep`**
```sh
kubectl describe ep svcName
```

```sh
Name:         nginx-clusterip-svc
Namespace:    default
Labels:       app=nginx-clusterip-svc
Annotations:  endpoints.kubernetes.io/last-change-trigger-time: 2025-03-06T04:37:32Z
Subsets:
  Addresses:          10.244.55.189,10.244.55.190,10.244.55.191
  NotReadyAddresses:  <none>
  Ports:
    Name     Port  Protocol
    ----     ----  --------
    <unset>  80    TCP

Events:  <none>
```
this thing manages `pods` on behalf of `svc`. here, in the subsets' addresses parameter: you get all the `ip`'s of the PODs. which are managed by endpoints which are endpoints itself. 
shows,
- The PODs IP. which itself are the endpoints (Addresses:          `10.244.55.189,10.244.55.190,10.244.55.191`)
- Ports that the endpoints are listening on (`80`)
- and the protocol (`TCP`)
- the namespace that `ep` is in. 

Only if you create an `svc` with a selector. The **Endpoints** will get created. `svc` without selector, it doesn't. Will see how that rolls out in upcoming days.

tldr: Workflow of the creation of an endpoint: 
`svc+selector` -- creates --> endpoint --> identifies PODs with labels. 

TO UNDERSTAND THE SAME IN DEEP:
list the pods,
```sh
kubectl get po -o wide
```
if i happened to kill a POD. 
```sh
kubectl delete po podName
kubectl get po -o wide
```
we all know that the `Deployment` workload resource object will try to create a new POD under the `replica` concept to match the desired and actual state. -> *new POD with a new IP*

REALISTICALLY SPEAKING BASED ON THE CONCEPT AND THE SETUP OF `svc`, the **endpoint** `ep` must be updated. The component must be managing the newly spawn resource. 
```sh
kubectl describe svc svcName
kubectl describe ep svcName
```
==the *new POD with a new IP* must've been applied and updated to the **Endpoints`ep`**==

**This is possible with the nature of ClusterIP `svc` type with the `selector` written on it, this Endpoint `ep`  gets created and works, which will take the responsibility of finding PODs which gets mapped having with the labels that are identical what we have written in the PODs and in the `svc` manifest and to the `svc` having this `ep` identifying and managing the same** :)

---
