
Will see today that,
I'm going to show you the **note-taking using Para method** by Thiago Forte.

so when I first dived into note taking systems,
I was like so overwhelmed and confused :)
- I tried bullet journaling 
- the Cornell method later encountered 
- the Para method and then I moved on to the 
- Zettelkastan method and 

I tried all of these methods and several more. I feel like I'm in a position where I can make some genuine recommendations that come from experience

I want you to start a note taking system that suits you that fits 
I'm going to give you also a few sets of principles and pitfalls with this method 
I'm going to also explain why I think this method is good for beginners 

so after all of these thousands of hours of note taking and trying out, 
**I recommend two methods** :
- **The para method and**
- **The Zettelkasten method** 

Para Method for today, Zettelkasten for later.
here we are going to to focus on the 
1) basics of the par method 
2) why it's suitable for beginners and  
3) how to use it effectively 

###### Para Method
The **Para method** is created by Thiago Forte and it was done in his book named **building a second brain**.


this is a brain and it's going building the your second brain. what's interesting is that 
- **it's note just about notes** 
- **this building a second brain is** 
- **more like a larger productivity system** and 

thus the Para method is 
- note only a method for note taking
- it's note just for writing 
- it serves as an an overall structure for your entire life and 
- for your thinking
- it's note only about notes 
- it's also actually how you um think about your time 
- how you divide up your time 
- how you prioritize your tasks
It's a really interesting method and this is also why I recommend it for beginners as one of the reasons.

###### Acronyms - PARA

> [!note] **PARA:**
> **P** - Projects
> **A** - Areas
> **R** - Resources
> **A** - Archives

I'm going to dive into each of these um elements one by one so ,
Will start to see all the same by starting with the Project:

###### 1) **Project**

 **Definition:** 
 getting things done-  GTD
 -- by David Allen 
> The definition of a project is defined as any that **requires the completion of multiple tasks in order to achieve a certain outcome**.
 
so, whenever you have more than one task that you need to complete 
that is all contributing towards a single goal 
a single desired outcome 
that is a project and 

usually projects have a short time Horizon. 

I try to scope them very small so it could be 
- building a PC it 
- planning a holiday 
- planning a vacation 
- setting up a Blog 
that kind of thing 
where it has a clear end state - is a project 

Now Here in PARA Method: 
**A project is simply a folder that you can collect notes in**. it's very similar to the the classic way of managing projects. 

Folder:
If you would buy a folder 
 this paper that you fold have that's where the word folder comes from so 
 this folder paper 
 folder that holds other papers 
 like a note even a binder but
  just to fold it around 
  
  so in that folder, you would then collect like all of the files and stuff. 
  eg: if you were to pick up a project or build a house, 
plus, you go to several different providers and they all give you
- documentation they all give you 
- flyers and 
-  Contracts,
- Blueprints 
- plans
- bills
- quotes and stuff. 
all that stuff and  you collect all of that in this this single folder. In that folder, you'll be folding that papers into that folder.  
and every time you sit down to work on this project, you are performing work on buying a house y
you would sit down 
you would take that folder and then 
you have all of the information ready Avail readily available for you 
it's all spread out  for you

so
> this is like the classic way of collecting information and
you're able to carry it around and that is more of the like the paper age and it is a ==**very effective way of doing it**==.

A project like we said is **a set of tasks to desire, certain outcom**e and like a few examples:
1) Planning a Vacation
if i were be to plan a vacation.  in order to plan that vacation. there are several tasks, so I would have 
- to research destinations and I would have to
- book a flight and um you would 
- have to create a packing list all of that research 
- picking the correct gear 
so these are all tasks that are all **contributing to this one project** = 

2)  launch a Blog 
say you want to launch a Blog on the internet and then
- you need to choose a platform like are you going for substack or WordPress or maybe going for self-hosted with Yugo
- you will need to figure out a design or a theme 
- you have to write your first post 
- all that kind of stuff 

so these are all and 
-> when you are like researching the platform, you will collect all of this information 
Like the links that you find on the internet 
all of the links are being stored in this this folder 
you will start writing notes like you are actually writing notes on the research 

like when you come across substack then 
-> you would write a note to your yourself 
1) what you think of it
2) what you don't like about it 
3) all of that 
all lives in the project folder and is is gathered there.

tldr: a short endeanvour with a short time Horizon. probably 3 - 12mnths

###### 2) **Areas**
areas are different from projects because they um entail something that you are responsible for over a longer period of time.
it involves an ongoing engagement or responsibility so by 

**Definition:** 
it's going to play a significant role in your life. it's a very important thing in your life. an example of areas with responsibilities:  the house right 

this is a house and then
1) House:
- you need to paint the house you need to do
- gardening and 
- Landscaping you have to 
- mow the lawn 
**all of these responsibilities come with a house**

secondly it could be your health
2) Health:
 like then you would have to have 
 - an exercise routine like
 - Fitness or 
 - running and you need to 
 - have a good diet like a health is a big area could be
 - family like 
 - maintaining family 
 - relationships
 **all of that and all of these activities for your health**

tldr: a part/ a journey. no end goal no time horizon. its a part of it that stays and goes on and on. 
that is 
- significant in your life and that 
- you are expecting to spend a lot of time on and 
- take a lot of notes on by distinction 

eg: 
if project is house, where its start and end building that
area is maintaining and enhancing the house, which is a part of it that goes on and on.

noteice that : 
this **project** of building or buying a house that when that is completed -> then it transition into an **area**. 
so you would have your projects folder and and here is the areas folder on the other side. 
where you have like family and and other things

well what you would do is then 
**you would take the house project ->  and move it to the area** 
because it's sort of graduate us to area status 

that's how this organization would work and

now you can start seeing how this philosophy. 
> **==this para method can can really help you to  structure your thinking==** 

because suddenly you have this distinction and the philosophy of and between
- short-term projects -> short term set of tasks 
- long-term areas -> of the long term extension of a long-term engagement
was very useful to me in the beginning 


###### 3) **Resources**
The name speaks for itself. 
**Resources** - These are simply collections of information which you expect to be useful in the future. these are all used for reference. 

i t's note necessarily tied to a project. Its just  it's just a hobby 
like indoor vegetable gardening or you can be into a game and then
you collect all of the the the build guides and all of that stuff into an random folder for example.

So, all of those 
- notes
- links 
things that you come across all of this stuff, you gather that ->  **resources.** so it's note useful at this very moment but you expect it to be useful in a in the future time 

**Resource: a thought to do one. a passing cloud work. like these are just like interests that you have hobbies that you are researching often and then you come across things** 
- **you write notes about them and then** 
- **you store them all in these respective containers or folders**

###### 4) **Archives**
**archive** -this is where you place notes which are note useful now or in the near future 
but you don't really want to throw them away either 

-> and what's great about an archive is that in a system like **obsidian**, then you will start searching for notes. when you're searching for certain notes and then suddenly you come across a note of like three years ago and you had totally forgotten about that note 
- but all of a sudden that that idea or that that
- that concept that you have spelled out in that note  
- that suddenly becomes super relevant and 
- you make a connection that is totally unexpected
- so instead of deleting notes it's much better to keep them in an archive 
- so that they will come up with searching 
- and you can make these unexpected con connections with notes 

so I recommend note deleting notes unless you are certain that this is note useful for your system at all 
**keep them in the archive and also like in tools like obsidian**
**it is possible to exclude certain directories from your searches**

so the implementation of this PARA METHOD in terms of a note taking system is very simple..
>you will end up having a **directory structure**

 an example Vault that I created 
 so here I would have an inbox, highly recommended

```
PARA-Method
├── 0.Inbox
├── 1.Projects
├── 2.Areas
├── 3.Resources
├── 4.Archives
└── templates
```

++ use numbering because the para in alphabetical order 
so for Unix systems, this is a nice way of actually making sure that the area, the order **is in the order that you want**.
So, you create this directory structure and then you then you start placing your notes in there so.
In obsidian, how it works is that
it's just a file system on your disk and then you have your local markdown files on your on your system and -> you can simply place these in like a project folder and -> you have other notes about your house -> all can go into the the house area -> because each of these folders would have their subfolders.

` and that's how you would have like your house area your family area and your volunteer work area these would be the project of starting a blog and building a PC all of them have these subfolders and then when you are done with the building a Blog um project then you `would move that to the -> archive for example or to an area so you you move these things around after you're done with them.

**so this is the implementation of para in a note taking system** . 
also you can apply the same in your bookmark manager for example.

You can also start Gathering, these the stuff in these categories.

you can if you have physical notes if you have a bookcase or if you have like um physical notes that you use that you write in or your notebooks

**==you can you can make this para distinction into everything you do==** and
that's what I like about the para method especially for beginners now
 
We came across one named `Inbox`, what is that?
 You need to have an **inbox.**
- you will be capturing your notes while 
- you're on the go then 
- you have this low friction way of capturing notes 
- this will stimulate you to do more notes to create 
- to write more notes if it's a low friction way
 if it's you're reading a book you have your notebook for example or you have your phone with obsidian on it and you have an interesting idea 
- you create a notes 
- it's in the Inbox and 
- it's done it's out of your mind 
and this will start to get you into this Note taking habit and 


that is a very useful method of working. but it does require **discipline**.
it's an extra layer of thought on your notes which is very useful.
I some I very often delete notes from my inbox because they don't seem useful at all anymore

but this in **==idea of an inbox where you can capture notes quickly on the go and then you process them later is a very powerful thing and I highly recommend you you do this==** 

##### Why PARA Method for begineers?
if you're completely new to this lifestyle
PARA METHOD is a great place to start because it's an excellent framework for your 
- writing 
- note taking and
- thinking 
**it's note just about notes. it's actually a method of bringing some structure to your whole life. it's a frame of thinking and that's why I like about the para method** note taking and productivity systems and living life with intention basically instead of just going from paycheck to paycheck
 **because the power method will force you to sit down and think well what projects am I actually working on** 

######**Systematic Approach:** 
 this was super helpful and it really helped in
 -  to divide this to make this division between projects and areas
 -  to get a clear picture of my priorities
 I had all these  projects in my head and I would just be doing stuff randomly in the moment that I as I felt that suited best for the moment and each of them had like this explosion of Unfinished tasks that was all in my mind 
 
 but when I sat down and I started really thinking about well 
 - what is actually important  
 - what are my areas 
 - what are the most important things in my life and 
-- I came up with a lot of areas and then I thought well maybe I need to cut a few of these out because I need to focus on the other ones :)

*music was a very important area in my life I I play guitar I sing I play the piano but all this stuff takes several hours a day of practice and it's fun but at that moment I I really made a conscious Choice like okay it's an important area in my life but my career is an even more important area in my life at this moment so I cut out music from my life and I saved thousands of hours a year because I don't have to do that practice anymore and I'll will pick it up later but now at this point this area needed to be put into the **archive***

for a bit cuz remember archive is note something permanent right you can archive something and you can take it out from the archive so that was really useful and then this distinction between projects and areas was also super useful like what are the short-term things

While pursuing career,  I did it all like jumble around in in random order but really think about like 
- what is my project 
- what is the goal that I want to achieve 
- what is the the desired outcome and then 
- what are the tasks that are needed to achieve this desired outcome 
and really sit down and divide them up 

 That's why PARA is so powerful Beyond just a notetaking system but to actually get some structure in your thinking and your life.

###### **Divide and Conquer:**
We are as human beings we are somehow naturally inclined 
to divide things up into folders and directories like to have categories for things and to split things up and to put things into their correct category into their correct place

**In the PARA method, it is a great way to start it feels natural to separate things and like this putting notes in certain categories is significant**.

in the beginning, it is more significant. As you mature, it becomes less significant.

> Here comes the Zettelkasten Method.
where there is no such structure everything. lives in just one big directory with all of your notes in there and then all of
- these notes are linked among each other
- with a system of identifiers 
- or markdown links in obsidian
so there's no way of pulling out  the vacation project in a folder like you might be used to 
Para first because this can be a very daunting Prospect at least for me
then Zettelkasten because, it was like completely un-earthly to put everything in one one folder and then somehow expect to be able to to reach your notes.

In PARA method,
I will share some **principles and pitfalls** Like things to watch out for.
###### Principles and Pitfalls
1)  **make decisions quickly.** 
don't go fall into that rabbit hole if you're processing your notes it. It should go here and save it.
2)  **avoid moving files around all the time**
so it can be really tempting to sort of Click through all of your your folders and see what notes are in there. it can be super tempting to do this kind of stuff it feels like productivity but actually it is false productivity.

*false productivity this is something you have to look out for like in general sometimes these activities feel like you're doing interesting work work that is conducive to contributing your goals and I've fallen into this trap that's why I'm telling you this but it can feel like a productive session but it's note it's note it's note productive at all* 

>**==The idea and the point to do all of this  is that your note taking should improve your productivity it should make you more time efficient should make it possible to achieve more in a shorter time, your productivity system should always make you more productive ==** 


*if these stuff not working for you, finding yourself agonizing over these node locations if you find yourself you're spending a lot of time on making these decisions then reflect like maybe the PARA method is note the right system for you maybe you are note suited to dividing these up into categories and you are more suited to the Zettelkasten method or something completely different*

bye! :)