When I reach the point of Mastering the Art of Note making, I realized that 
	the system doesn't matter!
	The PARA method
	ZETTEKASTEN
	or whatever system you choose
	**they are just that! Just systems**

 > Writing notes skillfully is the only thing that really matters

The false influence of these Productivity Influence overwhelms individuals drive one from what matters the most first. Influenced much by all these systems, instead of getting the point of actually taking the notes. 

Questions raised due to these false influence of following these systems is that, 
-  should I put this note in an area or a resource folder?
- how do I combine para and ZETTEKASTEN?
- what should my Noe titles be and how should I link them? 

==these questions will all answer themselves when you make the following fundamental cognitive shift, instead of seeing your notes as a collection of information.==

You must view your notes and your note taking system as 
> the place (a comfort space) 
> - where you do your deepest and best thinking. 
> - where mentally you can put your mind on
> - where you can make conversations with it
> - where you can do retrospectives about your mindfulness
> - it is the garden where you cultivate your knowledge. like a medieval monk tending to his herb garden with total concentration 
> - you must start tending to your notes as if they were fragile plants that need great care 

I therefore suggest that we start using the words 
**==note making==**, instead of *note taking*.

>The principles of a note maker is that
>- A skilled note maker is not hoarding information.
>- a skilled note maker does not copy and paste text into his system 
>- a skilled note not maker takes the information he consumes and converts that information into his own knowledge assets

this is the fundamental difference between note taking and note making 
> **we don't just copy and hoard**
   **we cultivate and refine** 

**==the foundation of note making  is that you must always write in your own words.==**

But be prepared note making feels arduous and exhausting in the beginning. this is exactly what you should feel.

You are challenging your own thinking, and you are verifying your own understanding.

**==The very fact that the process is hard and challenging means that it's a process worth doing.==**

*the act of writing notes in your own words demands deep thinking and forces you to Grapple with the material until it is truly understood.*

*when you encounter difficulties in this process it serves as a clear indicator that you need to delve deeper into the subject.*
*==there's no growth with without discomfort the strenuous feeling indicates that you are literally changing your mind==* 

This is the true! The Purpose of note making is to 
- reveal gaps in your understanding and
- to crystallize your own thinking 

**==learn to write skillfully crafted notes and your life will change forever.==**

I will now share the framework that I've used to become a master of note making.

#### Principles to the Art of note making:
The art of not making,  I have created the following set of principles may they serve you well in your note making Journey 
- write don't highlight :)
- curate don't collect 
- refine don't rush 

1) **write don't highlight :)**
consider your own experience how often do you engage with the
passages you've highlighted in books. 

I highlighted passages extensively in books believing this practice that i thought that would Aid my learning.  however, I realized that I rarely if ever Revisited these highlights. 

this extends to digital tools as well don't use read wise or browser extensions that allow direct clipping of text into your note taking system.

while they are  convenient **these methods often fall short in promoting deep engagement with the material. ==instead write your notes in your own words instead of quoting write**== 

Rule for me: Highlights, quotes and other formats are done for you understanding and other readers readability and convenience, My system is different and You system must be speaking to yourself. So, this here is totally different from what im preaching, *highlighting for the context as of now.* 

- ==writing is recommended writing in your own words instead of highlighting. ==
- ==use your own mind to engage with the material instead of blindly copy pasting==
- ==think deeply about the information and turn it into knowledge ==
**==if the information is not worth going through this process it's probably not worth keeping anyway.  write don't highlight==**

2) curate don't collect:
thoughtfully consider each addition to your note making system.

| Metaphor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | IRL                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| your notes are your garden of knowledge which you are cultivating with great care and attention, like a well- tended Garden each plant has its place in the composition. in gardens some plants will, attract useful creatures which will also benefit the other plants.<br><br> | Always try to enhance your other notes by reflecting how they relate to the other areas of your life.<br><br>don't fall into the Trap of blindly hoarding information without much thought |
 **==there's no merit in a huge collection of notes that don't carry meaning.==**

3) refine don't rush : 
spend quality time with your notes. 

start seeing the act of not making as active self-development like meditation or exercise.

Writing notes in your own words is the Pinnacle of mental craftsmanship.
	Writing is thinking on paper! and as you refine your notes your thinking will deepen


| Metaphor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | IRL                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| imagine a blacksmith in his Forge he keeps heating the steel hammering it out on his Anvil and carefully examining the result<br> <br>  then he will heat it again and he will keep hammering at that area that needs Improvement like a well forged blade hone to Perfection. | build your notes with purpose Clarity and precision<br><br>see your not note making as a craft use it to sharpen your thinking write and rewrite your notes until they are crystal clear without impurities |

internalize the teachings I have just given you and your questions about *where should this note go will disappear* . focus on the act of note making *instead of worrying about where to put them*.

these questions will answer themselves as your own garden of knowledge unfolds before your eyes over time l

Like anything good in the world it takes discipline effort and time 

but I promise you it will change your life for the better.

I offer this for your reflection and may your notes bring you as much joy and prosperity likewise. 


