##### Section 13: K8s Storage (Volumes)
1. Introduction to Kubernetes Storage types
		Introduction to Kubernetes Storage types- [Doc]
2. Overview on Kubernetes Volumes
		Overview on Kubernetes Volumes - [Doc]
3. Working principle of emptyDir volume type
		Overview on Kubernetes Volumes - [Doc]
4. EmptyDir volume type (Disk and Memory)
		EmptyDir Demo for emptyDir volume type (Disk and Memory) - [Doc]
5. Working principle of hostPath volume type
		HostPath Working principle of hostPath volume type - [Doc]
6. HostPath volume type (Directory and DirectoryOrCreate)
		HostPath Demo for hostPath volume type (Directory and DirectoryOrCreate) - [Doc]
7. HostPath volume type (File and FileOrCreate)
		HostPath Demo for hostPath volume type (File and FileOrCreate) - [Doc]
8. Working principle of nfs volume type
9. Setup NFS server for Kubernetes Volume Demo
10. NFS volume type
11. Jenkins CICD Deployment Object with active and passive mode (NFS volume type)
12. DownwardAPI (Information: fieldRef)
13. DownwardAPI (Information: resourceFieldRef)

---

# Section 13: K8s Storage (Volumes)
# 1. Introduction to Kubernetes Storage types

The next very important topic in this K8s - Storage (Volumes)
	Which is so critical for applications and for the clusters. Especially for **Applications** running on clusters. 

What's is in it?
First, need to know about 
- Volumes (followed by)
- Persistent Volumes (pv) (and the differences),
- Persistent volume claim (pvc)
- Storage class
And more storage types such as,
- Volume expansion (volume scaling)  
- Volumes snapshot
- Dynamic Volume provisioning
- And more advanced storage types. 

To start with storage. Will get familiar with volumes and proceed to more advanced types as we listed above. 

And see more of 
- When to use it,
- Where to use it,
- And use cases. 



---
# 2. Overview on Kubernetes Volumes
Overview on Kubernetes Volumes - [Doc]



---
# 3. Working principle of emptyDir volume type
Overview on Kubernetes Volumes - [Doc]



---

# 4 . EmptyDir volume type (Disk and Memory)
EmptyDir Demo for emptyDir volume type (Disk and Memory) - [Doc]



---
# 5 . Working principle of hostPath volume type
HostPath Working principle of hostPath volume type - [Doc]



---
# 6 . HostPath volume type (Directory and DirectoryOrCreate)
HostPath Demo for hostPath volume type (Directory and DirectoryOrCreate) - [Doc]



---
# 7 . HostPath volume type (File and FileOrCreate)
HostPath Demo for hostPath volume type (File and FileOrCreate) - [Doc]



---
# 8. Working principle of nfs volume types



---
# 9. Setup NFS server for Kubernetes Volume Demo




---
# 10. NFS volume type




---
# 11 . Jenkins CICD Deployment Object with active and passive mode (NFS volume type)



---
# 12 . DownwardAPI (Information: fieldRef)



---
# 13 . DownwardAPI (Information: resourceFieldRef)



---

---

