- RS creation in Declarative approach - Doc

# 2) Implement RS using declarative approach
**RS creation in Declarative approach - [Doc]**

Practical on Implementing **`rs`** in declarative way and tinkering with `scalein` and `scaleout`.

```sh
mkdir rs #handling rs's yaml manifests
cd rs
touch rs-multicontainer.yaml
```

to verify api-resources to find proper naming conventions for the manifest:
```sh
kubectl api-resources | grep replicaset
```

> !IMP NOTE: Manifest of `rs` and `rc` are very very similar, but the only major difference is working of `selectors` in `rs` which is heavily work with `matchLabels` and `matchExpressions`, not the Pod Template-label but the workload resource's label. 

Now will see just selector labels, then
- matchLabels, 
- matchExpressions
apart from this `selectors` and `labels`, all the boilerplate (the `apiVersion`, `kind`, `metadata`, `spec` of `rs` and such) and the rest of the parameters are just same (such as PodTemplate, `spec` of containers, `metadata`, POD's `Labels`, `volumes`, mounts and such). 

`rs-multicontainer.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: ReplicaSet
metadata:
  name: nginx-rs
  labels:
    app: nginx-app
    env: prod
    release: v1.0

spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
     app: nginx-app
     env: prod
     release: v1.0
  
  template:
    metadata:
      name: nginx-rs
      labels:
        app: nginx-app
        env: prod
        release: v1.0

    spec:
      containers:
      - name: write-app
        image: alpine
        command: ["/bin/sh"]
        args: ["-c", "while true; do date >> /var/log/index.html; sleep 10; done"]
        volumeMounts:
        - name: rc-shared-volume
          mountPath: /var/log
      - name: server-app
        image: nginx:latest
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        volumeMounts:
        - name: rc-shared-volume
          mountPath: /usr/share/nginx/html

      volumes:
      - name: rc-shared-volume
        emptyDir: {}
```
the same labels has to be in the PODs too! will apply this manifest and create `rs` workload resource.

```sh
kubectl create -f /path/to/rsManifest.yaml
```
schema validation will get passed. if not, recheck the manifest. Now will verify the status of the workload resource `rs`.

```sh
kubectl get rs -o wide
kubectl get po -o wide
```
All the `rc` and `po` gets created. 

to check the labels of these PODs. 
```sh
kubectl get pod -o wide --show-labels
```
can see what are all the labels that are assigned to the PodTemplate. With this,

WE HAVE SUCCESSFULLY DEPLOYED OUR APPLICATION BY USING `rs`.

and the rest of the functionalities as follows. especially, all the `replication` stuff too.

if you delete PODs, by passing
```sh
kubectl delete po podName
```
none gets deleted due to `replication` to make the application highly available, simply recreates a new pod. maintaining and keep matching the desired state = actual state.

To delete a resource, always delete the parent object = (`rc`) not the child (`PODs`) :). deletes `rc` and the `Pods`.
```sh
kubectl delete -f rs/Path/to/rsManifest.yaml
```

- here, in order to delete PODs. delete `rs` not the PODs. its of no use if u do so. none gets deleted too.
- In order to delete PODs without `rs`,  declare the replica count to 0. no PODs will be there. 
- In order to keep the PODs but to delete the `rs`, use cascade,
```sh
kubectl delete -cascade=orphan
```


---
