- RS - matchLabels - Doc

# 4) Demo: RS and POD Label selector (match Labels)

Understanding `matchLabels` for ReplicaSet + `matchExpressions` next following by:

(TO GET A BRIEF UNDERSTANDING ABOUT THE WORKINGS OF LABELS FOR  `rs` when we worked with `rs` likewise): 

Since we saw about Labels before in `rc`, 

> [!NOTE] Key Difference
> If no selector is written or not in the `rc`, there wont be any problem
==If  no selector and no Labels are written are present in the `rs`, the manifest wont accept and doesn't gets schema validated.==
**WITHOUT WRITING A SELECTOR, YOU CANNOT DEPLOY A REPLICASET!**
++
==The PodTemplate has to be identical too. In order to control the PODs using `ReplicaSet`==


```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: ReplicaSet
metadata:
  name: nginx-rs
  labels:
    app: nginx-app
    env: prod
    release: v1.0
  
spec:
  replicas: 3
  # selector:
  #   matchLabels:
  #    app: nginx-rc
  #    env: prod
  #    release: v1.0
  template:
    metadata:
      name: nginx-rs
      labels:
        app: nginx-app
        env: prod
        release: v1.0
  
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: write-app
        image: alpine
        command: ["/bin/sh"]
        args: ["-c", "while true; do date >> /var/log/index.html; sleep 10; done"]
        volumeMounts:
        - name: rc-shared-volume
          mountPath: /var/log
      - name: server-app
        image: nginx:latest
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        volumeMounts:
        - name: rc-shared-volume
          mountPath: /usr/share/nginx/html
  
      volumes:
      - name: rc-shared-volume
        emptyDir: {}
```
==Since we have not written the `selector`, this manifest couldn't get schema validated and deploy the application as we wish to!==. Without `selector` no `rs`.  should definitely pass at least one or multiple values as selector.

**NOT LIKE `rc`**. there, it doesn't matter and all those PODs get deployed. Plus, if no `matchLabels` section declared under the spec section of `rc` (not the containers) the labels from the PodTemplate section's metadata labels gets taken into consideration and get assigned to the `rc` as labels for the selector to identify:

**What happens to the `rs`?**
if we apply the manifest, error can be seen.
```
The ReplicaSet "nginx-rs" is invalid:
* spec.selector: Required value
* spec.template.metadata.labels: Invalid value: map[string]string{"app":"nginx-app", "env":"prod", "release":"v1.0"}: `selector` does not match template `labels`
```
Throwing this error. Since, we didn't write any selector, it couldn't pass the manifest and deploy the application.

>This isn't `rc` that don't mind labels. 
>Selectors matters and mandatory for `rs` for it to identify the resources. 

WITHOUT WRITING A SELECTOR, YOU CANNOT DEPLOY `rs` in K8s.
Since, there is none here, `rs` couldn't get applied.

> If `rc`, we didn't write any selector and though it gets applied and the selector will be adapted by the labels that are given under the template section. AND THIS IS NOT THE CASE FOR `rs`

`rs-multicontainer+matchLabels.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: ReplicaSet
metadata:
  name: nginx-rs
  labels:
    app: nginx-app
    env: prod
    release: v1.0
  
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
     app: nginx-app
     env: prod
     release: v1.0
     
  template:
    metadata:
      name: nginx-rs
      labels:
        app: nginx-app
        env: prod
        release: v1.0

    spec:
      containers:
      - name: write-app
        image: alpine
        command: ["/bin/sh"]
        args: ["-c", "while true; do date >> /var/log/index.html; sleep 10; done"]
        volumeMounts:
        - name: rc-shared-volume
          mountPath: /var/log

      - name: server-app
        image: nginx:latest
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        volumeMounts:
        - name: rc-shared-volume
          mountPath: /usr/share/nginx/html

      volumes:
      - name: rc-shared-volume
        emptyDir: {}
```

this gets applied in ease. 
++ those labels has to matchLabels in both the selector and in the metadata of PodTemplate, - to match the labels in the `spec.template.metadata.labels`.
- The `selector.matchLabels` determines which Pods the ReplicaSet manages.
- The `spec.template.metadata.labels` defines the labels assigned to Pods created by the ReplicaSet.
- These two must align for the ReplicaSet to manage its Pods properly.

Label mismatch - PODs will not be controlled by the `rs`

Apply the `rs` and verify the same.
```sh
kubectl get rs -o wide
kubectl get po -o wide --show-labels
```

Let play around by removing one of the label of `rs`, to do that,  run the same and pick one of the PODs Label: or simply `kubectl edit rs/rsName` to perform the same.

```sh
kubectl label pods PodName app-
```
will give the output of `POD unlabeled` - minus the label: `app`

AND,
```sh
kubectl get po -o wide --show-labels
```
now, you can able to see that the 
- unlabeled POD gets isolated, out of `rs`'s control to be orphaned.
- also the POD can be deleted, since it is not yet controlled by `rs`
- a new POD gets created  with the same labels.

WHY? if you want to do some patch, troubleshooting, run jobs inside the Container or such. But to perform the same outside a circle, isolate it by removing any one of the table and perform the same on a POD.

Delete, if needed. or bring back the same POD to the `rs`, after adding, the last one gets removed. Having a POD in isolation forever is of no use. To add back
```
kubectl label pods isolatedPodName app=label
```
you can re-add the Isolated POD with the `rs` by passing the same label.   

all will be back to default by old one getting associated with the `rs` and one of the least qualified POD gets terminated. 
> **THIS IS HOW `matchLabels` works for `rs`**

Later, we will see in brief about a similar concept name `matchedExpressions`

> [!NOTE]  ##### FINAL file - demo manifest of a multicontainer `replicationcontroller`.  RC - MANIFEST
> ###### multicontainer-rc.yaml.yaml
> ```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: ReplicaSet
metadata:
  name: nginx-rs
  labels:
    app: nginx-app
    env: prod
    release: v1.0
>
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
     app: nginx-app
     env: prod
     release: v1.0
>
 template:
    metadata:
      name: nginx-rs
      labels:
        app: nginx-app
        env: prod
        release: v1.0
>
 spec:
      containers:
      - name: write-app
        image: alpine
        command: ["/bin/sh"]
        args: ["-c", "while true; do date >> /var/log/index.html; sleep 10; done"]
        volumeMounts:
        - name: rc-shared-volume
          mountPath: /var/log
>
      - name: server-app
        image: nginx:latest
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        volumeMounts:
        - name: rc-shared-volume
          mountPath: /usr/share/nginx/html
  >volumes:
      - name: rc-shared-volume
        emptyDir: {}

---
