THE SHELL SCRIPTING DOCUMENTATION

Context:
This is to understand some of the basics of shell script programming (aka shell scripting),
and hopefully to introduce some of the possibilities of simple but powerful programming
available under the Bourne shell.

Reference: https://www.shellscript.sh/


HISTORY:
Steve Bourne wrote the original Bourne shell which appeared in the Seventh Edition Bell Labs
Research version of Unix. Many variants have come and gone over time (csh, ksh, and so on).

This tutorial restricts itself to being Bourne shell compatible, to provide a baseline. 
This tutorial covers all shell scripting basics. The Shell Scripting Examples 
section of the tutorial adds additional examples in particular of how the Bash shell
provides additional useful functionality over the standard Bourne shell.



PREREQUISITIES:
- Command line experience
- Familiar with UNIX/LINUX ENV
- Minimal programming knowledge - use of variables, functions, 
is useful background knowledge
- Some common commands
- Programmers might able to read but not to make sense out of it and how does it work.



TYPOGRAPHICAL CONVENTIONS / STYLE THAT ARE USED IN THIS DOCS:
Code segments and script output: FONT: monospace
Command-line entries: Dollar sign ($). 

If your prompt is different,
enter the command:

PS1="$ " ; 
export PS1

Then your interactions should match the examples given (such as ./my-script.sh below). 
Script output (such as "Hello World" below) is displayed at the start of the line.

$ echo '#!/bin/sh' > my-script.sh
$ echo 'echo Hello World' >> my-script.sh
$ chmod 755 my-script.sh
$ ./my-script.sh
Hello World
$

Entire scripts will be shown with a like this, and include a reference to the plain text 
of the script, where availablem like this:

my-script.sh
#!/bin/sh
# This is a comment!
echo Hello World        # This is a comment, too!

Note that to make a file executable, you must set the eXecutable bit,
and for a shell script, the Readable bit must also be set. So it is likely that 
you will need to change the permissions on your script, to make it executable. 
If your script is named "myscript.sh" then you will need to change its permissions, 
like this:
$ chmod u+rx myscript.sh
$ ./myscript.sh
