###### Kubernetes Overview & Pod- [Doc](obsidian://open?vault=tutorialHell&file=Orchestration%2Fk8engineers.com%2FKubernetes-Deep-Dive%2Foffl-raw-docs%2Fkubernetes%20deepdive%2Fsec3-k8s-pods%2F1.Kubernetes%20Overview%20%26%20Pod%20Introduction.docx)

Kubernetes Objects overview:
**Terminologies**:
> **Objects**: also previously has been named or called as service, components. Primarily, it is called as Kubernetes objects. 
>  IF I WANT TO CREATE ANYTHING ON KUBERNETES CLUSTER, CALLED AS OBJECTS. 

Will see what are all the objects that are available in Kubernetes Cluster. Objects can also be named as **workloads**.  

> ultimately we're using Kubernetes Cluster to deploy applications. While deploying, we use objects to make things happen.

E.g.:  
#### Approaches to deploy application on K8s Cluster,
using objects or workloads such as pods, config maps, secrets, network policy's, and other relevant resources -> a.k.a objects. 

Eg: 
Workloads  -->  Pod, Replication Controller/ReplicaSet, Deployment Set, DaemonSet, Stateful sets and Jobs.
These are named as Workloads because, you are deploying application on Kubernetes Cluster are of simply these objects. Simply a Pod or the rest of the object.

You have to create any one of them to deploy any one of the application on a kubernetes cluster. = Objects

**Approaches to deploy applications on kubernetes**

| Objects                 | Workloads                                |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| All Workloads           | Pods                                     |
| Service                 | Replication Controller / Replication Set |
| Configmaps/Secrets      | Deployment                               |
| Ingress                 | Daemonset                                |
| Network Policy          | Statefulset                              |
| PV, PVC & Storage class | Jobs and Cron Jobs                       |
| Many More               |                                          |
Use any one of them to create your application. Each workloads offers different set of features. 

**Objects**: Except all the workloads, whatever that gets created are know as objects, such as 
- All the workloads itself, 
- Service, (people were getting confused about this service and the object as service)
- ConfigMap/ Secrets,
- Ingress, 
- Network policy, 
- PV, PVC and Storage Classes, etc..  
> **previously, these has been called out as SERVICE - Legacy**

So! all of these here are all **OBJECTS**.
> THIS IS EXPLAINED HERE TO GET HABITUATED AND CLARITY ON THESE OBJECTS AND WORKLOADS.

>**Now, WILL SEE MORE ON PODS**
Will see answers for,
- what
- why (creating one in the first place)
- how (to use)
- benefits of a pod (rather than container tools)
- and more..
