10. Handling containers in POD using crictl (restart container POD)
###### Handling containers in Pod using crictl - [Doc](obsidian://open?vault=tutorialHell&file=Orchestration%2Fk8engineers.com%2FKubernetes-Deep-Dive%2Foffl-raw-docs%2Fkubernetes%20deepdive%2Fsec3-k8s-pods%2F6.Handling%20containers%20in%20Pod%20using%20crictl_.docx)
Will re-spin the same `multicontainer-pod.yaml` 
```sh
kubectl delete po podname
kubectl create -f po/podname.yaml
```
Will see the Benefits of shared volume by Instead of deleting, will recreating the same.

> deleting a pod looses data.

So that we shouldn't loose any data since they are coupled with each other.
```sh
kubectl describe po -o wide
kubectl describe po podname
```

While describing, See the restart count. shows zero for both the containers. Fresh since it was just spinned up. 
**WILL SEE THE SAME BY POKING  ONE OF THE CONTAINERS.** to see count after restart. 

For context here in the backend, these two containers that are coupled with one volume. If one container has to be under the maintenance. 
**THE REST OF THEM HAS NOT TO BE DISTURBED!**

To perform such actions without disrupting the interlinks in between the POD and the Containers. 
> To assess the same, we gotta access what manages containers here in the Concept of POD. 
> In our case, `crictl`.

**HOW TO RESTART A CONTAINER:** (since these container related actions can be assessed by `crictl` since it is managed by `containerd` which is a `cri` itself.

```sh
crictl ps 
```
#.to shows running container details

```sh
crictl stop <containerid> 
```
#.STOPS THE CONTAINER

```sh
crictl rm <containerid>
```
#.REMOVES THE CONTAINER
but, the spawns another container replacing that with a different container ID.
A NEW CONTAINER GOT RECREATED. 

 If i perform removing or deleting a container, which it wont get deleted. IT'S DESIRED STATE. you can see the status by
```sh
kubectl describe po podname 
```
check container and shows the restart has been occurred. BUT!
THE DATA WILL NOT BE LOSTED!
CHECK whether did we lost it or not!
```sh
kubectl get po -o wide
curl podIP
```
viola! **data is not lost.** 

Here is the matter:
>**BENEFIT OF THE SHARED VOLUME**: is even if i recreate the same containers, the volumes will be persistent and resilient remaining the same!.

+
The data/ volumes gets disrupted only if the PODs Volume or the PODs itself gets deleted. 

> EVEN IF WE RECREATE A CONTAINER, THE PROCESSES AND THE DATA WILL BE THE SAME. and 
> NOTHING WILL HAPPEN TO THE VOLUME. **BENEFITS OF THE SHARED VOLUME** - inside the pod.


**CHECK SHARED VOLUME:**
```sh
kubectl get po -o yaml | grep uid
sudo ls -l /var/lib/kubelet/pods/<podUID>/volumes/kubernetes.io~empty-dir/<sharedVolInYAML>/index.html 
```

 If the Pod gets deleted, no mounts will get popped up yet. if gets recreated, it will pops back up too under the pod. if
```sh
kubectl delete po <podName>
sudo ls -l /var/lib/kubelet/pods/<podUID>/volumes/kubernetes.io~empty-dir/<sharedVolInYAML>/index.html 

#will throw: No such file or directory
```
nothing will pop-up. which will not be present in the other side too. 
