Common Components -  [Doc](obsidian://open?vault=tutorialHell&file=Orchestration%2Fk8engineers.com%2Fofficial%2FMaster%20Docker%20and%20Kubernetes%2FCommon%20components%20for%20Control%20plane%20and%20Compute%20plane%20nodes)

Covered the Architecture. Will see what are all the components that are available to work with K8s in brief on both CONTROL PLANE NODE AND COMPUTE PLANE WORKER NODE
Naming convention: To the context that called 
Control Plane -  Master node
Compute Plane - Worker node

###### Common components on BOTH CONTROL PLANE NODE + COMPUTE WORKER PLANE NODE
just for all the recap, copying and referring the same.=
> [!NOTE] **1) CRI âš™ï¸**
> CRI - Container Runtime Interface. K8s doesnt create containers in the backend. its is a platform. Container Runtime does! 
These Container runtime interfaces talks to the CONTAINER ENGINE WHICHEVER THAT WORKS ON THE SAME. such as Containerd, Docker-Engine, CRI-O

> Containerd -> Recommended and Working in real time. 

> [!NOTE] **2) Kubelet ðŸ›ž**
>  Who should be the one who takes input from **kube-apiserver**â˜¸ï¸ to create container,  **kubelet**ðŸ›ž not to the CRI itself
>  
>  > **kube-apiserver**â˜¸ï¸ -> input --> **kubelet**ðŸ›ž  --> **CRI** âš™ï¸ --> creates -->  POD ðŸª£

> Kubelet will be running on both **CONTROL PLANE** AND **WORKER NODE** AS WELL. (client -server model)

++ what else?
> [!NOTE] **3) kube-proxy ðŸ”€**
> a proxy server which takes care handling the network managing things such as communication between the Pods and traffic. Kube-proxy knows how to send/redirect the traffic where it has to point to.

User ðŸ‘¤ -->  Node  --> **kube-proxy** ðŸ”€ (redirects) -- PODS
 
> COMPONENTS COMMON ON BOTH OF THESE NODES.
