Section 11: K8S Auto cleanup
1.  Introduction to Auto-cleanup of finished Jobs
2.  Jobs auto-cleanup
		Jobs auto-cleanup - [Doc]
3.  CronJobs auto-cleanup
		CronJobs auto-cleanup - [Doc]
---

# Section 11: K8S Auto cleanup
# 1.  Introduction to Auto-cleanup of finished Jobs
> K8s Workload Resource:  ==**Auto Cleanup**== for finished jobs,

We have already seen some about cleanup

manually removing resources by passing,
```sh
kubectl delete cj,job cj/jobName
```

or using `ttl` means `time-to-live`works under `.spec.ttlSecondsAfterFinished`
passing the `ttl` parameter in the manifest as,
```sh
ttlSecondsAfterFinished: nSecs
```

By passing this, the `kub-controllermanager` will take the responsibility of cleaning up all the finished jobs. either standalone `jobs` or `cronjobs` in order to clean up those stuff. 

THIS IS A RECAP OF THE SAME. 

---

# 2.  Jobs auto-cleanup
Jobs auto-cleanup - [Doc]

Will use the same for what we used to create the job,
```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: job1
spec:
  backoffLimit: 3
  suspend: false
  ttlSecondsAfterFinished: 30 #time to leave
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: job1-container
        image: alpine:latest
        command: ["/bin/sh"]
        args: ["-c", "echo Hello from the job1"]
```
here, we have written:
```sh
ttlSecondsAfterFinished: 30 #time to leave
```
>which cleans up the jobs within 30secs. No manual intervention required, k8s takes care of the same `kube-controllermanager` to be specific to perform an AUTO-CLEANUP for finished jobs.

**APPY THE SAME AND VERIFY YOURSELF**

WILL LOOK THE SAME FOR `Cron` AS WELL.

---

# 3.  CronJobs auto-cleanup
CronJobs auto-cleanup - [Doc]

HOW TO APPLY `ttl` parameter `ttlSecondsAfterFinished: nSecs` for `CronJobs`,

here, declare the same in the manifest. In the, `JobTemplate` spec. Not in `PodTemplate` spec

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: CronJob
metadata:
  name: cj1
spec:
  schedule: "*/2 * * * *"
  # timezone: "Asia/Kolkata"
  jobTemplate:
    spec:
      ttlSecondsAfterFinished: 10
      template:
        spec:
          restartPolicy: OnFailure
          containers:
            - name: cj1
            ...
```

>which cleans up the jobs within 30secs. No manual intervention required, k8s takes care of the same `kube-controllermanager` to be specific to perform an AUTO-CLEANUP for finished jobs.

`Cron` exists, doing its thing triggering a job, `jobs` doesn't. Simply gets cleaned up.

**APPY THE SAME AND VERIFY YOURSELF**




---

