###### Overview of setup - [Doc](obsidian://open?vault=tutorialHell&file=Orchestration%2Fk8engineers.com%2Fofficial%2FMaster%20Docker%20and%20Kubernetes%2Fsection2%2FOverview%20of%20Single%20or%20Multi%20node%20kubernetes%20setup%20using%20kubeadm%20tool%20and%20containerd%20CRI)
###### Setting up K8s Clusters using **Kubeadm** Tool (setting up K8s Clusters on Single or Multi-node) + using containerd and CRI tool for Container creation.

**Pre-requisite:**
1)  system - Bare-metal/ Physical Local or remote, VM and Cloud Instance/VM (here we use a remote VM - Document scripted on Oracle VirtualBox, Practiced on Windows Hyper-V)
 2) OS - ubuntu22..04 LTS (amd64/x84_64) - easy to use and OSS
 3) Spec - 2 CPU Cores for each instance
4) 2GB> RAM or more as it scale by deploying more apps
5) Disable Swap memory -  K8s !IMPORTANT recommendation - Apps gets slowed down, lacks efficiency when,
> Memory that get stored on the disc not on RAM. 
6)  Ensure network availability (no NAT, Full Ping Internet) Should be able to talk on VM to another without any issue. ! Must have unique IP and Hostname.
WELL COMPATIBLE TO RUN **KUBEADM** 

**containerd and K8s setup and all the points that has to be taken to consideration**
going to use **containerd** as container runtime interface for K8s (since K8s cannot create all the PODS, but form and orchestrate clusters) 
--  If you want to create containers as PODS on K8s -> has to pass information to **containerd** (which creates all the containers in the backend)
1) install **containerd** (or whatever as per your convenience) as CRI for Kubernetes, since K8s v1.24+
2) Install packages:
	-**kubeadm** -to setup all the K8s cluster, 
	-**kubelet** - daemon service for all the nodes, *(takes responsibility of how/ what to be created -> gets pass to **containerd**)* and 
	-**kubectl** - cli tool -> path or way to communicate/talk to K8s and share information.
3) Setup Project **Calico** as CNI - Container Network Interface for K8s Networking. (every pod will gets its own particular IP Address from this Calico(uses Overlay Network with **VXLanCrossSubnet** tag to enable communication between one container to another sitting on two different nodes))  Adapting all the same here too.
4) Disable Taints on control plane node for single node setup. (*no need if you are using multi-node setup*)

#### See all the same in practical session