# Kubernetes HA setup and configuration using **kubeadm** tool [](https://github.com/rithishsamm/myTutorialHell/blob/main/Orchestration/k8engineers.com/kubernetes_latest_manifest/Kubernetes/01-kubernetes-architecture-Installation/05-k8s-ha-kubeadm-containerd.md#kubernetes-ha-setup-and-configuration-using-kubeadm-tool)
Previously, we have configured single node having both the nodes on one single node under one single VM, multi-node using Kubeadm. Similarly, will deploy a K8s HA Setup using the same.
### k8s Tools used
- kubeadm,
- kubectl,
- kubelet

**OBJECTIVE**: 
	Deploying more than one control plane node. List of nodes used for Kubernetes HA setup. In order to manage traffic to a control plane node, need of LOAD BALANCER is a necessary.
- 1 node for HAproxy,
- 3 nodes for Control plane,
- 1 or more nodes for Compute plane (as per our need)

In our case, will be using for the case for **Control plane load balancing** using **HA Proxy.** Other proxies can be applicable too such as Load Balancer's from Nginx, Apache and more as per Ops convenience. We will be using HA Proxy Load balancer for our case.
 
Means, the `kubectl` or all of my API calls will be made and gets transmitted to this **HA Proxy Load Balance**r to all the relevant **control plane node**s. 

This setup will be well fit in AWS - Amazon Web Services placing all these nodes on the cloud.
#### Cloud Setup:
Reason for such setup in the cloud is that, in on-prem means on my or your local machine takes up a *lot of resources* for such use cases. Cloud will be a much wiser and convenient option for both the local setup and to the production grade deployment. 

**Setup Environment:**
- AWS account (Free trail),
- **3 control planes have been used as part of HA setup using AWS EC2 service** (since we might have less resource on-prem),
- Compute plane nodes consist of few Kubernetes workloads like PODs, Replication Controllers, ReplicaSets, Deployments, DaemonSet, Statefulset, Jobs, CronJobs and etc.,
> How many if these components that we will be make use of is depend on how much of a complex application, or many of the application or microservices that you'd seek to run on the same. 

If it is a simple application, one or two compute plane is more than enough for such workloads. List of nodes used to setup Kubernetes HA.
- **1** node for **HAproxy**,
- **3** nodes for **Control plane**,
- **2** or more nodes for **Compute plane** (as per our need)
Totally six nodes will be running here as nodes on each EC2 Instances.

**Nodes System Specs and Prerequisite:** 
- Ubuntu 22.04 or more (LTS Standard) 
- Disable swap
```
free -h
/etc/fstab/ -> # comment out swp
```
- Spec: 15GB, 2vCPU, 4GB RAM - t2medium++
> Will deploy all these nodes.

###### EC2 Installation Steps:
**AWS** -> Region (**Mumbai**) -> 

==**EC2**== -> Name -> Application or OS Image: **Ubuntu 22.04 LTS** -> Arch: **64bit x86** -> Instance Type: **2vCPU, 4GB RAM - t2micro** -> Key pair: **RSA** or **ED25519**-> Network -> Select **VPC** and **Subnets** -> Security Group: Select **SG** -> Storage: **No of GB** volume->  Number of Instances to launch: **6** (HAProxy -**1**, Control Plane node- **3**, Compute Worker Node- **2**). -> ==**Launch instance**== -> 
Name All the instances:
1) HA Proxy,
2) Control Plane 1,
3) Control Plane 2,
4) Control Plane 3,
5) Worker Node 1,
6) Worker Node 2
#### Now applying some Common operations on all nodes - except HAproxy node:
 1) Become a root user and Update ubuntu
```sh
sudo apt update
```
2) Upgrade
```sh
sudo apt full-upgrade
```
3) install K8s and CRI Packages
```sh
sudo apt-get install ca-certificates curl gnupg
```
and further which will cover further on the following docs.

