- Introduction to MetalLB for On-premises k8s cluster - Doc


---
# 16. Introduction to MetalLB for On-premises K8s cluster
Introduction to MetalLB for On-premises k8s cluster - [Doc]

**Will dig deep into the MetalLB and see how it works on-prem.**
- Definition
- how it works
- why MetalLB

MetalLB for On-Premises Kubernetes Cluster (Service type: LoadBalancer)
1) Kubernetes doesn't offer `network load balancer` for `svc` Service Object of type `LB` LoadBalancer
2) For bare-metal cluster, using Service of type `NodePort` and `ExternalIP` is not recommended for Production grade infrastructure.
3) So, MetalLB provides a solution to implemet *Layer-4 LoadBalancer* for Kubernetes `svc` type **LoadBalancer**
**Components of MetalLB:**
- `metallb-system/controller`: It will be running as a **`Deployment`** object in K8s cluster that handles IP address assignments
- `metallb-system/speaker`: It will be installed as **`DaemonSet`** to make sure that the `svc` is reachable of protocol type enabled. 
**Requirements:**
- K8s Cluster version >= 1.13.0
- CNI that supports MetalLB *(**calico**, antrea, canal, cilium, flannel, kube-router, wave net, Kube-ovn)*
- Free IP address pool to be allocated to **MetalLB**
- L2 operating mode, ensure `7946` port is allowed between nodes (if firewall is enabled)


##### **MetalLB for On-Premises Kubernetes Cluster (Service type: LoadBalancer)**
###### 1) Kubernetes doesn't offer `network load balancer` for `svc` Service Object of type `LB` LoadBalancer
So , K8s does not offer **L4 Network Load Balancer** for `svc` object of LB by itself inertly. 
doesn't do LB by itself. It offers LoadBalancer `svc` type as a service type but it doesn't do the actual work of Load balancing which has been done by other one which is **MetalLB** to do the actual load balancing for your application and that too is on **Transport layer L4 Load Balancer**. aka Network load balancer.  

###### 2) For bare-metal cluster, using Service of type `NodePort` and `ExternalIP` is not recommended for Production grade infrastructure.

For a bare-metal production grade K8s Cluster setup `NodePort` and `ExternalIP` are not recommended for the `svc` type. 
Suits for `dev` environments but not for production. We should not expose our application using `NodePort` and `ExternalIP` which is on an on-prem BareMetal production setup.

Due to security concerns, such as 
- Directs access to firewall
- Opens ports with broader access
- Unnecessary clutter of opening random ports

Alternate to these are we are looking at `LoadBalancer` using **MetalLB** for on-prem and other relative `svc`'s as well. Will dig deep into all of that. 

###### 3) So, MetalLB provides a solution to implement *Layer-4 LoadBalancer* for Kubernetes `svc` type **LoadBalancer**
For On-prem bare metal server, had to do like these. An external Load Balancer component to do the load balancing which is **MetalLB**. No need for cloud or other managed services, since those are self managed. 

For these MetalLB, there are two components inherited to it,
- controller
- speaker
These two components of MetalLB will be running on its separate namespace - `metallb-system` namespace, not will be in default or K8s namespace. 

Will be created when you deploy applications On-prem bare metal cluster. 
In these `metallb-system` namespace for each, each of these component of `metallb`,
- the `metallb`'s `controller`  will be running as a `Deployment` object - managing the IP addresses of the node.
-  the `metallb`'s `speaker`  will be running as a `daemonset` object - running on all the available node to handle the protocol of the `svc` that uses

###### **Components of MetalLB:**
- `metallb-system/controller`: It will be running as a **`Deployment`** object in K8s cluster that handles IP address assignments - ==as an `svc`, it handles IP address of the cluster==
- `metallb-system/speaker`: It will be installed as **`DaemonSet`** to make sure that the `svc` is reachable of protocol type enabled. - ==runs on all the available nodes, handles/manages protocol of the svc that it uses.== these are handled by the `speaker`. 

###### **Hardware Requirements:** for`MetalLB`
- K8s Cluster version >= 1.13.0 (more than)
- CNI that supports MetalLB *( supported cni's: **calico**, antrea, canal, cilium, flannel, kube-router, wave net, Kube-ovn)*
- Free IP address pool to be allocated to **MetalLB** in order to make it work it as an `LB`. will see how to allocate one. 
- L2 operating mode (all nodes can communicate with each other), ensure `7946` port is allowed between nodes (if firewall is enabled)

These are the crucial point to consider before moving on with MetalLB. Will see how to implement one. 

---
