- Introduction and Overview to k8 services and types - Doc

---
# 2.  Introduction to k8s Service and Types
Introduction and Overview to k8 services and types - [Doc]

**Services**: A way to access a set of PODs managed by the K8s Workload Resources. 
**Storage:** A way to assess and provisions dataset a set of PODs Volumes to be a shared datasets managed by the K8s Workload Resources. 
> K8s Component:  ==**Services**== and ==**Volumes - PV and PVC**==

In these K8s workload Resources, we have seen all these standalone pods, `rc`'s, `rs`'s, `deploy`ments, `ds`'s, `jobs`, `cronjobs` and such. not `sts` yet since we need a brief understanding about **services** and **storage**. 

we have seen all these workloads and stuff but
- HOW DO YOU MANAGE AND DISTRIBUTE THE TRAFFIC? 
- IF A NEED OF A **PROXY** OR **LB**, WHAT ARE ALL THE COMPONENTS THAT WE HAVE?  - **==SERVICES==**

##### Services:
**Services**: A way to access a set of PODs managed by the K8s Workload Resources. 

Will dive into K8s Services and all the services types we have,
1) ClusterIP (default)
2) NodePort 
3) LoadBalancer `LB`
4) ExternalIP
5) ExternalName
6) Headless (ClusterIP: none)

Will be getting started with 
###### ClusterIP(default):
**ClusterIP is the default service type.** Will go in detail about the ClusterIP 
- What is ClusterIP
- Why is it used
- When to use it
- What is DNS
- What is IP Address
- How the DNS assigns and routes
- Who takes care of it
- How `kube-proxy` plays a key roles in distributing the traffic to the workload resources & controlling the network

###### NodePort:
NodePort to accessing the all the applications outside the cluster, 

###### LoadBalancer:
LoadBalancer to distribute the traffic and helps accessing the applications outside the cluster. 

services itself the LoadBalancer `LB`. But if need of an additional Load Balancers for some specified use cases and adding ease of functionality for a complex infrastructure `LB`.  

###### ExternalIP:
Accessing external components from outside the cluster, **ExternalIP** from the/via/through applications running inside the K8s Cluster. 

###### ExternalName:
and the same to communicate to the external resources by using DNS name, **ExternalName**

###### Headless Service (ClusterIP: none):
 important for Statefulset resources. performing all these headlessly. 

WILL DIG DEEPER INTO THIS AND UNDERSTAND WHAT ALL THESE SERVICES MEANS, WHAT TO USE, WHY TO USE AND WHERE TO  USE IT. 

---

