- Service selector and Pod labels - Doc


---
# 8. Service selector and pod labels
Service selector and Pod labels - [Doc]

So far, we've come through this. WILL COVER THE NEXT SCENARIO OF, 
and WE UNDERSTAND THE WORKINGS OF `svc` that, `svc` -> endpoint -> grabs`selectors` -> matches Labels -> identifies PODs. 

Question is, WHAT IF. I create PODs having the same labels but outside the endpoint targets?
What if like ill be creating a standalone pods with the same labels? (out of our target endpoints.) 

**WILL THE `svc` IDENTIFIES THOSE PODs SINCE IT MATCHES THE LABELS TOO?** 
will try and see that by ourselves, create a service using imperative approach

before that, check all the already available running resources:
```sh
kubectl get svc,deploy,rs,po -o wide
kubectl get po -o wide --show-labels
kubectl describe po -o wide --show-labels
```

create a pod ` using imperative approach
```sh
kubectl run podName --image=imageName --labels=identicalLabels 
```
```sh
kubectl run podName --image=nginx  --labels=app=nginx
```
NOW, WE HAVE A POD that have same identical label as we declared to the `svc`'s to identify the PODs. 

Verify resources. 
```sh
kubectl get svc,deploy,rs,po -o wide
kubectl get po -o wide --show-labels
```

check the `svc` endpoints: (suspense music)
```sh
kubectl describe svc svcName
kubectl describe ep svcName
```
YES! THIS **svc** `ep` IDENFIES TH STANDALONE POD TOO. since it has the same labels of `svc`as the `deploy` workloads too.

as you can see the described output. to verify that,
```sh
curl svcIP
```
SINCE, we simply use `nginx` printing `hello-world` but the rest are the application which prints the date. 

***prints in-between since it follows round-robin fashion.***
**tldr**: yes, `ep` adds if PODs having identical labels whatsoever. 

to remove, simply delete the POD or remove/modify the label.  
to ,modify or remove a PODs label, (enough to mention just the key)
```sh
kubectl label po podName key-
kubectl label po podName app-
```

verify:
```sh
kubectl describe ep svcName
kubectl describe svc svcName
```

**Cleanup:**
```sh
kubectl get svc,deploy,po -o wide
```
```sh
kubectl delete svc svcName
kubectl delete deploy deployName
```
```sh
kubectl get svc,deploy,po -o wide
```

:)

---
