STARTING FROM THE GROUND
-- Will see how request response works!

1) launch LAMP stack + adminer and assess the MySQL DB + Adminer
2) cmd in terminal
```
ifconfig
```
2) shows all the interfaces (either virtual or physical) attached to the system.
3) adminer -> have adminer.php on hand -> **WILL DO AN EXPERIMENT WITH THAT FILE** where since it is a single file, it pretty much can run anywhere to connect to a DB? *BASED ON THIS, WILL UNDERSTAND HOW WEB WORKS IN BRIEF.*
4) Install a Database Client (e.g.: MySQL Workbench) -> Open Workbench (ROUGH: *The idea behind experimenting this is that connecting dB with the client is convenient Over the air+ you can place SQL Code wherever as per your convenience)*
5) get to know about port forwarding here where wherever the DB lies it can be accessible OTA only via  the internal network aligned within the ecosystem established around such environment.
6) ping a website (http with a site just opens just by IP)
```
ping url (eg: example.com)
```
7) Open the same site using the site's IP
8) Port Forward the same the site's IP with : 80 (ip:80) -> results opening the same website over the browser (what does it mean)
##### Understanding Ports
to the above context, the just by using the IP, the site opens + the same happens even if we port forward the IP to our systems internal port: 80.

WHAT IS :80? -> an interface where each of the port can run multiple services.
eg: http -> DEFAULT PORT 80, MongoDB: 27017, MinIO: 9001 and more. 
```
sudo service apache stop
```



